because we need to know which is our world
and which product we need to work.
Okay?
In this case, I won't let...
I'm very old now, 100%.
The other guy is here.
Do you hear me?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Now there are three, all of them, so we can start.
Okay, perfect.
If you hear me better, I talk without microphone.
For this lesson, I want to give you a technical lesson
about the automotive world, the today's automotive world
in the hybrid vehicles and electrical vehicles.
Only a good concept.
In this lesson, I like so much, and in all of my lessons,
I like so much to have questions, doubts,
and change of opinion with all of you.
And for this, I've become open-ended
because I won't see people in charge.
I know that in this lesson, we let this lesson
for the next academies.
But please, don't hesitate to answer questions and markets.
Slides are the only support in this lesson.
But we talk about automotive world
and we talk about technologies
because slides are at all times available on the internet.
Lesson is needed for understanding well
and our basic concepts.
About this, the first thing that I want to talk about
in this lesson, and we can start.
Pasquale, if you want to react, we'll start now.
Okay, okay, thanks.
Okay.
About this lesson, we'll do a panoramic
of automotive world starting
to talk about hybrid vehicles.
Pay attention.
For me, hybrid vehicles,
I know that exist hybrid vehicles
with two types of fuel,
but in this lesson,
we talk only,
only about hybrid vehicles
when one of the two old motor engines
is an electrical engine,
a motor, an electrical motor.
In this lesson, we talk only about technologies
that are tied with a combination
with a fuel combustion
plus an electric combustion,
or we talk about strategies
that are totally electric.
First thing that I want to request
to all of you,
why we need to develop this type of car?
Why we need to improve our effort
in automotive world,
which is the bigger dimension?
We need to reduce the emission.
The emission.
The solution.
Perfect.
Well, because just think
that we are not the moving totally,
we are not the impact.
To reduce.
To reduce the impact.
Well.
Well.
Well.
In the air.
In cities.
In cities.
Our big effort today
in automotive world is to reduce the emission in the places where the high concentration
of people is higher. For this, the strategies that we are following in automotive world today
are hybrid vehicles with electrical motors plus totally electric vehicles. Today there is also
another good technology that is starting, that is the hydrogen. We talked a little bit in this
lesson also with hydrogen. About this, we start about a follow-up of all types of hybrid vehicles.
Now, sharing my screen, I see also the slides forever a follow-up and in these slides we talk
about different types of strategies. First thing that I won't talk with you,
doesn't exist only one type of a hybrid vehicles. Hybrid vehicles are followed in a different way.
In this slide, it's more clear that exists conventional engine, it's gasoline or diesel,
bigger emission, most well zero electrical power. After this, it's developed an hybrid,
and for hybrid we have different technologies that we check after. But we need to imagine that the
fish hybrid is an hybrid that uses cinematic energy for the charge of their batteries. For this, we call
hybrid, which is hybrid, which is the effort of these, we deduct the mission. But the complexity of the driver is a little bit higher.
Second step, plug-in. Why I cannot charge from external point of view the battery? I put the plug-in. Plug-in is only the charging.
With this, I have a battery that is bigger than the previous battery, which is the trade-off.
Complexity increases, cost increases,
and also the emission goes down, but also there is another new problem. Battery, that is increasing.
Increasing. About this strategy, in parallel, when we have developed electric vehicles, in parallel,
started also the developing of electrical cars, total electrical cars, which is the trade-off for
the electric. Electrical cars, of course, have not an engine, a conventional engine. This means good enough
for the emission, which is the trade-off. Today, we have two bigger problems with the electrical cars,
battery that has more weight, and for this, the cost is higher, and after, the second problem,
less range. If we solve these two problems, today we are not talking about other types of technologies,
because there is one technology with one technology. Today, the beautiful thing, the really beautiful
thing in automotive world is that we are not the global solution. This means that our job is needed,
more needed, because there are a lot of technologies that are developing, a lot of interaction, a lot of
things that are changing. This means a lot of work for us, and a lot of work also to think the definitive
solution. For this, we have a lot of technologies, because we are not the global solution. If you remember,
in the previous years, we know that all diesel vehicles are done in only one way, with our common sale
and injection. Today, we have not the solution of common sale. We are thinking which is the global
solution for automotive world, and we are checking in our technologies, growing the technology factory,
and also check that we need to be, and it's a must, it's not nice to have, it's a must, that we need to be
green. It's not possible that the automotive world is not green today, because this kills ourselves. This is the aim of
automotive world, and this aim needs to be reached as soon as possible. Talking about all strategies, we start,
no, I won't start before, with a global point of view of all types of hybrids. This type of hybrid, and here in the picture,
there is a 500 hybrid, is the micro hybrid. Micro hybrid, it's a technology that is quite cheaper. Why?
Because it's only, do you know which is a smart alternator? The alternator of the car, the first
starting of the motor. You need to imagine that the micro hybrid cars are the only cars that have a smart
alternator more bigger than the normal one, and there is a battery of 12 volt, only 12 volt, to achieve
the first input, because remember all times that the more critical points in the car are when you are
starting the motor, because you are not possibly to reach the stoichiometric ratio, and when you have a
gear change, a gear shift. These are the two most important points for emission, because are the points
that you have a bigger emission possible. Micro hybrid has figured, okay, I have the car in this moment,
and then the shifting moment. I put an alternator that is bigger, and they put another battery,
another 12 volt battery, that is needed only in the spaces. This car is not, is not able to drive in
electric. Totally not capable. It's not possible that a micro hybrid car that goes in electric.
It's only 12, because when you start, you don't start with the 400 and after you put the engine on,
but you start, you arrive to 1000 rpm. After the 1000 rpm, you put on the engine, the combustion engine.
In this way, you have not the problem of not stoichiometric behavior. Okay? And in this way,
you have a little bit of reduction of emission. In this phase, and in the changing, because in the
changing, you need to imagine that the fpm of the mart engine has a cost field, because it goes down,
and after it goes up. If I remain in this phase with the ranging constant, this means that I'm not this,
and the motor doesn't have a spike in the, in the calculation of combustion. This way, it's constant,
and I less, I don't put, I put less emission. Yeah? After this technology, sorry, there are questions?
Yeah, just one question for this micro hybrid. Uh, here it said, like, the alternator is connected to
another battery. So the power of alternator is the same, just 12 volts? Like, uh, uh, it said that the
electrical motor is connected on a belt slip, but the alternator is the same, yeah? We have one
alternator. About this new type of alternator. This means that you remove the classical alternator
of your car. Okay. You put a bigger one alternator that is able to reach also high gas speed.
Okay. Bigger alternator in which sense? It's more voltage, like 24 or still 12? No, no, no. It
remains 12, but it's more, uh, effort and more power to speed up the, uh, uh, the engine. This means
that you remain of 12 volts, but it's more robust and you can use this not only for a little time in
the starting as the actual alternator, but you can use for a greater time because here's a battery that
it's used only for alternator. It's not similar to your battery that it's used also for lighting for
the other types. This battery is the totally dedicated only to alternators. Okay. I understand.
Thank you. You have a two battery in the car when you have an hybrid car. After this, we talked not
about bad vehicles, but we talked, give me one second, about a technology that is called mild hybrid
electrical vehicles. Mild hybrid electrical vehicles are vehicles that has an electrical motor,
direct electrical motor, in one of the points where the electrical motor can be put, after we explain
better, which are the points. But you need to imagine that these cars are mild hybrid, because
ARN has a new battery that is a 48 volt battery. And in this type of vehicles, this electrical motor usually
is put in or directly in the gear shift. In this way, it helps a lot the gear shift, not only
for a little time, only for a little time, to go totally electric. We are talking about one, two, three
kilometers maximum, not more. And we're talking for a speed that is usually less speed, 10, 20,
15, 15, max, 30 maximum kilometers per hour. Why this? Because the real scope of this car is to help during.
How I can help? I can help with an electrical motor that actually is a stronger electrical motor.
And this electrical motor, and this electrical motor gives a real support, not only with the smart
alternator that we have spoken, but also plus a motor that is internally, the gear shift, for example,
that helps in the shifting totally. This means that when I shift, the engine remains to a certain speed,
but I can change a lot of gears without any problems. I can change the structure. One of these cards is,
in the picture, there is only Q3 mild hybrid, but actually this type of solution is followed by all
per makers. For Stellantis side. For Stellantis side, for example, there is Zergid that is not only plug-in,
but also mild hybrid. And you can find this solution in market, in the car market,
for more companies. This technology has an effort of production that has 48 volt battery,
plus, plus, plus an electrical motor, totally. In this way, you need to think that my
die grid is more expensive than metal. Of course. It's, of course, more expensive.
Now, I want to talk with you about the technology. Think about this technology as the grandmother of all
hybrid vehicles today. I want to report all times this date, because it's most important for me this date.
In 1997, the first commercial car hybrid was in the market. In 1997, when the automotive world is
developing the diesel vehicles in the same years. The first car developed in the hybrid world is by
Toyota and is the Toyota Prius, the classical car of the driver. The taxi, sorry.
This car has a full hybrid vehicle. This means that there's a bigger battery,
battery, more or less, which is how we have the bandwidth of the battery. We need to think that
this car is charged by street, by cinematic energy that you follow from the street, and you
accumulate internally. This means that it's a similar effect of dynamo. I don't know if you know which
is dynamo. It's a sort of energy that you follow from cinematic energy. This means that you are braking.
You don't need to brake. You need only to follow the slope, and the car breaks with the electrical
motor that goes in opposite way. Because, you know, the electrical motor can work when you put energy,
but it can work also if you put an electrical motor and start to rotate. If you start to rotate,
you accumulate energy and the opposite. In this way, this is the developing, which is the control. You
cannot charge this car from external point of view. This means that you are limited. And which is the
other control? You need to think about two important topics when you show which battery you want.
First, how many energy I can put in my car during a normal driving cycle in a city. Second, if I put a
battery bigger, my weight is bigger. But if the weight is bigger, my battery needs to be stronger.
because I finish my energy before. Because more weight I need to drive, more the confirmation
I have. The trade-off is this. Usually, the full electric, full hybrid electrical vehicle has a battery package
that it's more or less six gigawatt. This type of car can go totally in electric for the 70-20
kilometers. Depends from the type of car. But they can reach also all speed that we want. Usually,
Toyota has a stronger limitation when he has developed the fixed time of this car. But it's an electronic
limitation. Toyota has shown that today the full electric cars can reach only 50 kilometers hour
only for the trade-off of the battery. Because if you reach 50 kilometers hours, remember that you
discharge the battery less than when you reach a bigger speed. Remember a lot of times that electrical
vehicles, usually electrical vehicles, have no problems when the engine vehicles have problems.
This means that in the city, it's the good enough environment for the hybrid electric. But highways,
it's the nightmare of this car. Because in the highways, you are not possible to charge the battery,
usually. Because you don't brake, you don't have strange behaviors, and you have only a weight that is
increasing. Because the more rain you have, the more increase your weight, your perception of weight.
This means that an electrical vehicle can go better in cities, worse than in highways. For this,
it's better to develop electric and driving cars that are good enough in cities.
Okay? After this, ah, other most important information,
full hybrid vehicles actually are vehicles that are moving from the market. Why?
Because this is the substitution. Plugging vehicles. Today, which is the big difference between
a full electric vehicle and a plug-in. Only that the plug-in, we can charge, we put it in a wall.
Sorry? You can charge it from a wall.
Yeah, of course. You have all the functionality of a full hybrid vehicle. Remember all times,
and I want all times to remember also to you, that sometimes the car seller,
gives for the cell a full hybrid, gives that the full hybrid can be charged by the street.
The plug-in can be charged only from the charger. It's not true. The plug-in vehicle can be charged with
the street, plus the charger. It's an upgrade, for these are more expensive than full hybrid vehicles.
Okay? In this example, I want to report the two fixed Stellantis vehicles that are plug-in hybrid,
that are Jeep Compass and Jeep Renegade. In this case, are 4XC vehicles. After we go in detail,
but I won't start with the panoramic of all type of vehicles. Another technology that today is
developing a lot on hybrid world is the Re-Heave vehicles. Re-Heave is range extended
electrical vehicles. It's another type of hybrid, but it's a quite particular type of hybrid, because
in the previous phases, we have talked about an hybrid that has two motors that collaborate for
driving. In the Re-Heave vehicle, the engine, the internal combustion engine, is only, only for
charged battery. It's not a driving scope. Which is the advantage of this? You can use the acting-stone
cycle that is more efficient, less power, and you can use a motor in its optimal range.
This technology is a total electric car with less battery that is charged with the ICE motor. The first
example of this car is a BMW E8. It is a supercar that it's a good enough type of Re-Heave. Actually,
another technology that we are developing for the Re-Heave vehicle is the hydrogen. Hydrogen cars,
are only electrical cars, where the ICE is changed with a full cell combustion.
Full cell is only a part where you put air, you put water, with a reaction, you have an energy.
This means that when we talk about hydrogen, only in a case that is Mazda case,
in the onloaded cases, we are talking about a Re-Heave vehicle, where the ICE is substituted with a full cell.
And for this, the main zero emission.
I like a lot of the Re-Heave vehicles because I think that it's the future, but it's my personal opinion.
After this, we talk about BEV.
BEV is battery-electrical vehicles, not total electric vehicles. In this case,
for the technology point of view, the BEV, battery-electrical vehicles,
vehicles are simpler and easier than the hybrid vehicles because you have not a lot of interruption.
You have an electrical motor, a battery, and stop.
Why are they so much expensive? Because the battery has the bigger cost in an electrical vehicle.
This means that electrical vehicles today have the trade-off of the battery.
If we are able to develop a technology where the battery is not lithium, is not more dangerous, has
few advantages that today, maybe today we are not talking about hybrid, in my point of view.
But today we talk about hybrid because the battery is a bigger limitation.
We cannot find only this solution of battery-electrical vehicles and we cannot find a solution where
all cars are electric. Also because just think that today the market is following
electrical vehicles also for bigger cars. I'm seeing, for example, for Audi. Audi has
developed the e-tron sportback that is a car really bigger and has a car with 120 kilowatt battery.
But just think that 120 kilowatt battery for charging a battery of 120 without wallet, because wallet
costs a lot for us, you need to lost one and a half day to your home to the car charging.
It cannot be possible today to have this type of car for the long range.
You can think a solution similar to the Lantz with 500D, in my opinion, my personal opinion,
is a car that is really a good car for electric vehicles because it's a city car, good enough,
beautiful, beautiful also to see, and it's completely allocated in the world where the electrical
cars need to borne. City. You use the 500D only in the city. It's a good behavior, this. Anyway,
we are not a car market today. We are a consultant and we are engineering people. We need to think
with ourselves, but we need to adapt ourselves to the market. These are my opinion. After this,
we start now to talk about this beautiful slide. In this slide, now we go in detail because this slide
can be applied with all technologies that we have talked about. You see that here there is a schematic of
a car and there are some positions that are called the P plus another. The mental of times that P is
position of electrical motor that they expect to. Okay? It's not a plug. It's position of electrical motor.
Starting from this, we detail step by step all positions that are in this slide.
First position, P0. The position P0 is on the best slip, but not internally of the motor. When we talk
with a car that has only, all these motors are not all in the same vehicles, but there are positions,
and we show which position we want to use. If we have only P0 and ICE engine, the normal engine,
we're talking about a micro hybrid. If we have P1 motor, P1 can be in two different points of the motor.
Forward, forward, and it's called the P1F, levels that it's called the P1L that you can see in the slide
before. Remember that P1F is on the best slip, but differently to the position P0, it's globally integrated
in the in the in the engine. It's near, it's not in a best slip, but in the best slip. The P1L is in the position
at the end of the motor before the transmission. After this, these are the position P1F and P1L. The number of
times that if we all need to develop a car, usually all the P1F or the P1L for all types of hybrid,
not micro but the other hybrid, are the all times followed by one of these two models, or P1F or P1L.
It's all times present because P1L, for example, helps a lot during the
the strategy of starting to change the shift. And for this, it's a model most important. Also because
with the P1L for all the P1L, you are able to follow and to charge the vehicle better because you are
strictly near the engine combustion. After this position, we go in the transmission. In transmission,
before the transmission, we can have a P2 motor. Remember, P2 motor is a motor that is up at the
transmission. It's not internally the gear shift. Okay, this means that if we want, this is the first
motor that can drive autonomously the car. Why? You see that there is a black block here. This is
a friction. I don't remember the name. A clutch, sorry. There is a clutch that opens the connection
between the engine and the wheels. And then you can drive only with the P2. This means that the P2 motor
can be used for the full hybrid plug-in hybrid because you are able to go directly, totally in electric.
Why? Because you decouple with the clutch the engine. The engine remains with the stoppad and you can work with the P2.
other position. Another position, most important, is that it's called the PS in slide.
PS is the center. It's internally to the gear shift. In reality, this position is also called the P2.5.
P2.5. Why 2.5? Because it's internally to the gear shift. If I see position before the gear 2,
after the gear shift 3, means that internally is P2.5. P2.5 is a motor that is not capable with P2.
So, P2.5 is an electrical motor that is used with mild hybrid vehicles. Why? Because it's not totally able to go in electric for more time.
Why? Because it has not a clutch that decouple the combustion engine with our transmission.
This means that when we go with P2.5 in total electric, we need to move also the combustion engine.
We don't inject gasoline, but we need to move the motor. And for this, we have a big effort with an electrical motor.
This means that it's not going to go in electric. It's going to use his power to help the gear.
Usually, a combination more common for the mild hybrid vehicles is P1F plus P2.5.
This is a combination of mild hybrid vehicles. Usually, a full hybrid or a plug-in
hybrid vehicles. Usually, a P1F plus P2. Usually. Another type of combination, this is the combination
that Toyota has chosen, is to use the P3 motor. After we talk about the performance of the vehicles.
P3 motor is at the end of the transmission. It's an electrical motor that can run totally in electric.
It's a strong electric motor. But his principal scope is to have bigger efficiency, low performance.
Usually, Toyota P3 is a car that is developed with P1F, P3. And it is a car that is able to reach
an emission of gasoline consumption of 25-26 km per meter. That is good enough. It's really good.
But the performance are not bigger than the previous version. Why? Because the P3 put in this position
lost a lot of weight during the transportation of the energy. This means that it's a good enough
for efficiency, lower performance. P2 has not really good enough efficiency, but has really beautiful performance.
It's a good enough performance. Another position that we want to talk about here is the P4 position.
P4 position is if you have the ICE motor in forward wheels, you have the P4 in rear wheels, otherwise the matching.
all pistol will be combustion engine. This means that this car, in a strange way is at 4 wheels because the engine
engine motor upper that has four world wheels before the year you have a four xc four xc usually
this is the strategy used to still antes for the uh compass and energy for the
uh jeep compass and jeep it's used for the xc okay about this this position before that is really
higher efficiency higher performance card lower efficiency because um it's all times a trade-off
these are the global position here in these slides they mean to talk only with the position p5
when the um the car is totally electric the p5 is the five position is for the highest motor
and when we talk about p5 position we're talking about the vehicle in this slide it's not present
okay this is a first follow-up are there any doubts about this follow-up
okay you need you need to remember that you can develop a card for the high performance
or the higher efficiency usually we need to think that the hybrid cars are not cars that are given
for the the the gasoline the consummation of gasoline but are born for the remove the consummation of
gasoline in cities but with the higher performance the only card that deducted totally the gasoline
consumption consumption is when you have the motor in p3 position because p3 position has more
efficiency low performance p2 mp4 motors that are used at the fourth plugin hybrid has higher performance
but not good enough efficiency after we see also why but this is the overview of the position of the
motors is most important because we work on with this when we work with an hybrid vehicle the first most
important thing that we need to know which type of configuration is p1 p4 p1 p2 p1 p3
depends because this helps a lot our work okay i have one question okay if you think for the battery
it's like p1 just p1 depends for this an example a stronger example that it's not deported in slides
exists an electric a total electric that is called the ewd that is a fully electric car where there is a
full electrical motor one for wheel oh i have this question uh if you have one per wheel but how do they
transmit like for example uh in the car it's the right method for the engineers because you need
the two uh decouple and they have matching with the software yeah but if you take a normal car
actually what uh car does like they have a strong power in the back bridge no problem no no no no no
and they uh for example in italy are more common have the forward wheels okay it's more common you are
talking about american style the american style is more than that in the real wheels american style and
one time bmw currently in italy there is julia that is stronger in the real wheels but it's a chosen
because you have a trade-off for real wheels and uh forward wheels usually when we look about an
hybrid technology is nice to have the four wheels okay nice to have and uh usually the strategy that
we use also when we have a p1 p2 that it's only for world usually the p1 p2 is used to forecast that
after there is the differential for the four wheels because it's stronger you have a good technology
why don't use this technology better for support okay so uh yeah i just need some clarification uh when
you keep the eyes like how it transmits if you have four motors to the four wheels like how it goes
you don't have the dice okay when you have four motors from which are electrical motors okay you need
to combine how power you want for a single motor with the software okay with the software you do this
for this iwd is a technology that is beautiful from technical point of view but it's really difficult to
implement usually electrical vehicles takes two or three for example there are electrical vehicles that
has two before the one p2 as combination and in this way you drive the car 500d for example has only one
electrical motors in the one p2 so uh there are cars that has three there are cars that has two depends
from the chosen that you have and which is your scope ah usually remember a lot of times that uh all
electrical vehicles and this is also for the hybrid vehicles uh for the decoupling you have a
uh total different way to work because electrical vehicles has the maximum torque and for this you
have a higher acceleration but lower the maximum speed usually you have this type of period i get
acceleration and lower speed okay we can continue and we can continue now after this i won't talk
about the strategy that we use here in this i won't explain and i won't talk with you about p1 before
and all types of views here in this slide is represented p1f c p1f has only a representation that it's on the
back slip you need to remember that p1f it's internal of the model in this slide only for
the um student's um student's point of view it's represented externally okay okay but usually it's
here it's easier okay i'm sorry yeah this is how prius works toyota prius sorry toyota prius this
no no this is um this is a p1 before the toyota prius is a p1 p3 okay okay i won't explain the p1
before the p1 p2 because of some um starting point of view are the two bigger examples that we need to
follow and they're more complex than p1 p3 okay in this slide side i presented them this is the engine
transmission batteries the dual inverter that convert our continuous power with the power that we need
them and this is a translation and the p4 motor about this we start we need to drive this type of
driving i want to drive this car in total electric ah we're doing this way if i want to drive this car
in total electric which are the steps that they need to do this step open clutch if i open the clutch
i remove totally the combustion engine and the combustion engine and p1f of some of my driving
i have no connection and they drive only with the p4 in this case my car is a zero will drive
in fact this is the possibility ending off with the transmission network the co-led totally and i work
into full electric this type of driving it's called eb after this i won't talk about serious
serious serious serious this means when i'm my car i need to reach the city and i want that my battery
doesn't lost uh charge and they can use my card after in the city okay this is a strange way to drive this
car because we lost a lot of gaslight in this configuration but it's needed for charge the
battery which is our idea we remain the clutch operated we put on our combustion engine we use the p1f
for charge the battery we use the p4 for move the car this means that our car has the combustion engine
on but the combustion engine doesn't give us the power we have the clutch in neutral but we have
the car that is more than electric why serious because if we drag and drop the flux of the energy
we start from engine combustion we go in the battery we go outside the battery and we put the energy on
before it's a serious because the flux from the battery enter and exit clear in this case we are we're
sure that we are losing a lot of energy because it's not the correct way to work if you think it's similar
to our zib vehicle as technology range extended but differently to the vehicle this type of card is
not born to be zib this means that the combustion engine is all times which is the shows that we do in
hybrid vehicles so few less power in the combustion engine this means that usually we have cars that
has a weight of two tons with that model that it's a combustion engine of 1.3 1.5 maximum for this in this
configuration we are saving the battery but we are losing a lot of gasoline it's used only when you need to
go in a city you are sure that you need electrical car and for this you charge the battery because you cannot
go to plug okay you have not time to plug it's a shoes now we talk about parallel for p1 p4 parallel means
that we are in the transmission we close all and we have the thermal engine that works with the
forward wells before that works with the rear wells in this case the flux of the energy is a parallel
because the energy of the battery is done to p1f in this direction and to p4 in this reaction there are
two flux that exit to the battery for charge and there are two flux that will charge the battery
this means that is a parallel or parallel because if i represent the battery here the flux of energy
does in this way and goes in this way and goes in this way for the charger to posit in serious we do this
okay in this case this is the parallel for p1 p4 technology
when i talk about parallel for the p1 p4 i'm talking about normal driving of the car
because this is the normal i use the two motor and in this way i've also the must the most efficient
performance i've also this is a performance card in this way why because you have the two all motors
on the car that are working and also tracking in the same place and you can charge when you can
charge this means when you have energy that you need to operate from the street when you break etc
after this we talk about t1p2 and we see how change series and parallel if you remember i given you
what you want to see ah here sometimes you can find in graphic the um sigla called bsg that is p1f
why bsg built slip generator it's the same thing that we call this p1f in this case our configuration is
the p1f p2 and the battery it's here now first thinking absolute we check when this card goes in
parallel and which is our effect and when this card goes in uh cds to check that i think it could be
in the urban area it should go to uh series for any uh out of the city it should go in parallel
now we check now we check we check what you which is the strategy because we have talked about
cd stem parallel for the p1 before now we talked about the cd stem parallel for a p1 p2
and a quite different concept because this is the battery we have given the feedback that p1
series is when the energy starts from the battery and goes to the card and after they turn back to
the battery if we see here if i start from the battery i go here i use the bsg the bsg goes to the
motor the motor the motor the motor is coupled the clutch is closed goes to electrical motor electrical
motor gives energy to the card the energy that is in plus goes to the battery in this case think this
concept serious is when i use ice plus p2 is the the opposite of before before when i use cds i use
only p4 in this case if i talk about cds i'm talking about an energy that starts from the battery goes in
p1f goes in an ice the ice is close at the clutch in this way use the p2 and after gives energy to the
wheels in this case p1 p2 cds means when you use all two motors parallel is when you use electrical motor
here and bsg here and bsg here this means that you have the clutch open head but if you have the clutch
open head you are using your engine motor the ice for a generator for generate battery for this this
means that when you talk about parallel for a p1 p2 you are talking about a technology that is
so i'm using only p2 for the drive the car the concept for p1 p2 is totally different to the concept
of p1 before clear dubs uh generally uh what is the application of these i mean uh i'm talking about
this the old car no no normal car we're talking for all for normal cars all the technology that i've
spoken in these lights are the normal cars after also formula one for example has strategy that are
similar p1 before etc okay but these are normal cars okay now what is this uh repeat the p1 p2 parallel
the one picture parallel when you are in parallel when from the battery you have two flux that goes
one to bsg and one from uh electrical motor the p1 or p2 okay in this case you need to open the k0
if you open the k0 you cannot use engine ice if you don't use dice this means that the dice or is
a generator or is stopped this means that your car is using only p2 for drive it's the opposite way of the
uh before here there is another detail at the slide to this network topology it's an argument that i think
that we can put okay that's all from my side
is there any questions dubs uh from our side no thank you very much it was understood okay a lot of
questions guys i won't be clear you can contact me without any problems uh this lesson is a theoretical
lesson only forgive ah okay we work on this this is our world today this is the automotive world i
want also that you start to see videos information on internet because these technologies and these
slides are right growth in 2021 today for me there are a lot of information plus why because the world
is changing in this direction we are changing we are growing in this direction okay is it okay yes
for the uh i hope that we have also next lessons with me i don't know but if we have uh next lessons my
type of uh i think and uh you can stop the neck if you want
okay okay i will stop it okay thank you uh for all types of lessons that i do i like a lot uh interact
because
because
because
you
because
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
