The sensor is the primary element of a measurement chain that converts the input variable into
a signal that is suitable for measurement.
A transducer is a device that accepts information in the form of a physical or chemical input variable
and converts it into an output variable that can be of the same or of a different nature.
In other words, we can say that the transducer outputs an electrical signal that is linked
to the input, that is, there is always a relationship between the input and the output.
Here in the slide you can see a diagram that includes the sensor and after it the transducer.
The element we are going to measure is called the measurement.
In the diagram you can see the first measurement that is the input of the sensor and the second
measurement that is the input of the transducer.
So we said that the sensor is the first element in the measurement chain.
The sensor converts the physical quantity into another that is more easily manageable.
The transducer instead provides a measurable electrical signal as output.
In fact, the main difference between the sensor and the transducer is due to the aim of their
using, because the sensor is used for controlling, while the transducer is aimed at the measurement.
That's why we are used to use these two terms as synonyms.
It's important to remember that a transducer is a sensor, but a sensor is not necessarily
a transducer.
There are different types of sensors depending on certain parameters by which they are classified.
In fact, we can have active sensors, passive sensors, digital, analog sensors, and so on.
So we say that sensors can be classified, first of all, according to the type of measurement
.
According to the type of output, voltage, current, resistive, capacitive, inductive sensor, we
have voltage and current sensors, analog sensors that provide the output signal that follows
the variation of the input value, and digital sensors for which the output is a binary code.
Now we want to put attention to the first classification, active and passive.
A sensor is defined active if the physical effect on which it is based ensures the transformation
of the measurement's own energy into an electrical energy.
A sensor is defined passive if the effect of the measurement results in an impedance change
of the sensing element.
In other simpler words, we can say that active sensors generate a current or voltage signal
signal at the output, while for passive sensors we will have a variation at the output of
an electrical parameter, resistance, capacity, and so on.
It is important to underline that for passive sensors we need another conversion.
This conversion is possible using a conditioning circuit, that is defined as a circuit or electrical
system that is able to modify signal characteristics.
It is necessary to clarify that for passive sensors or transducers the conditioning circuit is essential,
is indispensable, while for active sensors or transducers the conditioning circuit is only to make an adaptation
of the parameters.
The conditioning circuit is the task of adapting the parameters of the electrical energy generated by the transducers
transducers to the input characteristics of the measurement system, that is called signal conditioning.
So let's try to understand what happens in case of passive sensors or transducers.
So why this conditioning circuit is so essential?
In general we can say that a single electrical parameter or a current signal has to be further adapted
and then provided as input to our electrical circuit.
Specifically, what are the possible functions of a conditioning circuit?
First of all, application.
Secondary, the filtering.
Perhaps because of the presence of noise or distortion on the user for signal input to the AD converter.
And in this case is the use of a filter is essential.
It might be a resistance voltage or current voltage conversion.
And finally, linearization.
This is an operation that is performed on the analog outputs of non-linear transducers.
Let's continue with more definitions.
Let's then talk about the main features of a sensor.
They are
measure that is the quantity to be measured.
Measuring principle, that is the physical principle on which the conversion is based.
Significant properties, sensor construction properties, internal circuits, sensitivity, and so on.
And range that defines the operating limits of the sensor.
Let's take a detailed look at the characteristics of the inputs.
Species, that is the physical input quantity.
Input range, range of values of the measurement within which the sensor operates according to specifications.
Measureant safety range, that is the range of values of the measurement outside which the sensor remains permanently damaged.
Its extreme values are called overload or overrange.
Similarly also for outputs, we can say that the main characteristics are
Spaces, nature of the output quantity.
Normal operating range, or output range, that is the range of values of the output, when the input varies in the input range.
Deliberable power, the limit value of the power that the sensor can supply to the downstream user system.
In other words, it is the maximum value of the output power.
Moreover, if the output is current, the load impedance is specified.
Output impedance, each sensor has its own impedance.
And uncertainty of output, that is the width of the range, including all the values that could be assumed,
with a certain probability or confidence level, to represent the value of the output corresponding to a certain operating condition.
Well, now let's give an overview of what are the static and dynamic characteristics of sensors and transducers.
Let's start with the static characteristics of a sensor.
First of all, conversion function, that is a function that allows the value of the output to be derived from the input.
Calibration function, that is the relationship that allows the value of the input and the corresponding uncertainty band to be derived from each value of the output quantity.
We are therefore talking about the relationship between input and output, but with a delta of uncertainty.
This is because for each input, we will not have a single output value, but a range of values of the measurement.
Calibration constant, slope of the calibration curve, if it is linear.
And calibration uncertainty, that is the width of the range of values.
Other static characteristics are sensitivity, that is the slope of the conversion curve at a certain point and corresponds to the inverse of the slope of the calibration curve.
In other words, it is the ratio of the change in output signal to the corresponding change in input signal as shown in the formula on the right side of the slide.
Stability, that is the ability to maintain the operating characteristics unchanged over time, long and short term.
And then we cannot forget the linearity, which indicates by how much the calibration curve deviates from the straight line, precisely from the ideal line.
Here we have other three characteristics.
We are still talking about static features.
Resolution, changing the value of the measurement that causes an appreciable change in the value of the output quantity.
If the sensor works close to zero, it is called a threshold.
Repeatability, that is the aptitude of the instrument to provide values of the output quantity that differ little from each other,
when you apply the same input and under the same operating conditions.
It is expressed similarly to calibration uncertainty.
In other words, it is the aptitude of the instrument to always provide the same value at the output for the same input.
In stereesis, this is the maximum difference between the values of the output corresponding to the same measurement,
when all values of the measuring range are considered, and each value is reached with the first increasing and then decreasing measurement.
In other words, it represents the maximum difference between the input and the output values,
and it is calculated by varying the values between the range from minimum to maximum and opposite.
Here, there are dynamic characteristics.
Clearly, we are going to consider separately what concerns the time domain and the frequency domain.
About the frequency domain, we can talk about frequency response,
which we know characterizes the behavior of the sensor, instrument or acquisition system when the input quantity is subjected to time varying stresses.
The frequency range, that is the range of frequencies in which the modulus response curve does not go outside a predetermined tolerance band,
and possible resonance frequency.
About the time domain, we can talk about rise time and response time, time constant, settling time, overshoot dumping factor,
and things I'm sure you've heard before at the university.
From here, in the next two slides, we can find a table of sensors sorted by type.
Now, let's start with the actuators.
By definition, an actuator is a system that includes both mechanical and electrical energy.
In particular, the electrical energy is able to cause the development of a specific motion.
Just as we have seen for sensors, also for the actuators, there are different types.
Electric, electrostatic, hydraulic, electromechanic, and so on, which we will see in the following slides.
So, we can say that an actuator is a device in an automation system that transforms an automatic common decision,
process it by an electronic control board, into a physical action on the processing being regulated.
So, an actuator makes it possible to act on a system in order to change its behavior and obtain the desired output.
More generally, the actuator can be defined as a transducer that is capable of transforming the signal from one physical domain,
typically electrical, into an equivalent quantity belonging to another domain,
for example, mechanical, thermal, hydraulic, and so on.
We can classify the actuators according different parameters.
First of all, we have a classification according to the type of physical quantity that is going to be implemented,
mechanical, hydraulic, electric, and so on.
And the second one, according to the type of electric actuation common,
that could be digital, analog, or PWM.
Let's talk about an example of an actuator.
Let's talk about a relay.
Why are relays so common?
Relays are widely used in electronics because they allow larger loads to be powered by low voltage, low amperage electronics.
A relay is an electromechanical component consisting of a coil within which a magnetic field is created such that it closes or opens a contact.
The symbol of the relay is what you see drawn above the component in the figure on the right side of the slide.
Looking at this symbol, we see that the left side is the electrical part or control circuit,
coil in which the magnetic field is created by application of a voltage,
while the right side is the mechanical part or power circuit, which goes to mechanically close the contacts.
The contacts are called normally closed or normally open.
When the relay is not energized, it has one contact already closed, which is called normally closed.
When a voltage is applied and the relay is energized, it goes to close another contact opening the normally closed.
This other contact is called normally open.
The contact you see below in the figure of the symbol of the relay indicated by the number 30 is the common contact.
Now we introduce two concepts.
HSD high side driver switch and LSD low side driver switch.
An HSD high side driver switch relay is defined as a relay that in order to be commanded active,
the control unit that manages its control needs to use a high potential.
In fact, the channel is called active high.
As a result, the other pin of the control coil will be connected to a low reference potential.
A ground to be clear.
The LSD low side driver switch relay is defined as a relay which in order to be commanded active,
the control unit that manages its control needs to use a low potential.
It follows that the control coil will have one of the two pins connected to a high reference potential,
which may be, for example, battery voltage.
In the evolution of electronic systems in the automotive area, control units, ECUs, have been controlling and managing various actuators by using PWM commands.
For example, diesel pressure regulator, EGR, VGT, solenoid valve actuator and so on.
PWM means pulse width modulation.
PWM control is a square wave signal that changes by varying the width of the positive pulse duty cycle in the same unit of time, frequency.
A PWM signal is characterized by fixed frequency and variable duty cycle.
Duty cycle, by definition, is the ratio of the time when the square wave takes a high value to the period T, where the period T is the inverse of the frequency.
It follows that, for example, if we have a duty cycle of 20%, it corresponds to a square wave that takes on a high value 20% of the time and takes a low value in the remaining 80%.
An electronic control unit provides some specific actuators that need PWM control with a fixed frequency square wave signal that is variable cycle modulated.
Here, then, this is the PWM.
For example, the ECU command will therefore be a signal that will feed the solenoid valve coil and will be able to open it completely, close it completely, and most important, partialize its opening.
In practice, the ECU causes the control voltage to varying at such a frequency that the actuator does not move following the instantaneous value of the voltage, but reaches a position that will depend on the proportion between the time the voltage is present and the time the voltage is absent, precisely due to the cycle variation.
An example of a PWM command is the one in the present slide.
Here we can see a niche bridge, which is a rather simple circuit consisting of four electronic switches that drive a load, place it in the center.
They are usually used, for instance, to drive DC motors.
When the four switches S1, S2, S3, S4 are all open, the load, let's say the case of a DC electric motor, for example, that is indicated by letter M, is not energized.
The four switches never close all at once, but in pairs, specifically S1 with S4 and S2 with S3.
In this way, they create two closed paths that allow current to flow within the circuit.
In fact, when, for example, S1 and S4 are closed, the motor that is energized turns in one direction.
When the other two switches, S2 and S3, close instead, the motor is powered and turns in the opposite direction since we have practically reversed the polarity of the voltage applied to the motor.
It is clear that, in theory, the four switches can be opened and closed independently of the others.
But in practice, we avoid these configurations different from these two because, for instance, if they are all closed at the same time, a short circuit would result.
The H-bridge allows the motor to be controlled only in the on-off mode.
In the on state, the motor is energized and turns, one way or the other, at the maximum speed allowed by the V-in voltage.
While in the off state, the motor is not powered.
However, in most practical applications, continuous regulation of the rotational speed is required.
And this can be achieved by controlling the four switches using pulse width modulation, so using PWM control.
And this will then cause that during the on time, the motor is energized and gradually increases its speed.
While during the off time, the power supply is zero and the motor, if it was turning before, now tends to break.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
