Now we can talk about the interesting part of the electric machines.
We start to talk about one of the motors used in the automotive field.
The electric motor is a commutatorless motor and for this offers a number of advantages
over conventional DC motor drives as low cost, high power factor, reliable operation.
The induction motor is an AC motor and there are many different ways to design and control
this motor.
We can find low cost with single phase input or high accuracy with polyphase approach.
The main one is the induction motor with three phase.
Right, you can see the typical structure of an induction motor.
The most common type is the squirrel cage.
You can see the stator incorporated with three phases armature windings, you can see the rotor
incorporated with cage bars that are short-circuited by two hand rings.
You can find two bearings to the mechanical support of the rotor and a machine frame with two
hand belts towards the machine.
The windings in the stator are applied at three phase electrical power that establish a rotating
magnetic field in the air gap between the stator and the rotor.
The stator field can be seen as a series of north-south poles revolving around the circumferences
of the stator.
The rotating speed of the stator magnetic field is linked to the supply frequency f.
In an induction motor, the angular speed of the rotor is lower than the synchronous speed
of the magnetic field generated by the stator windings, hence called asynchronous.
The rotating magnetic field induces currents in the rotor by magnetic induction.
These currents, in turn, generate a rotor magnetic field which opposes flux variations.
It interacts with the stator field generating a torque on the rotor windings which causes the
rotor to rotate.
So, just to recap, we have a current in the stator windings that creates a stator magnetic
field.
This stator magnetic field induces a current in the rotor by magnetic induction.
The rotor current creates a rotor magnetic field.
The interaction between this magnetic field generates a torque that causes the rotor to rotate.
The synchronous speed is linked to the pole paves of the motor and the frequency.
Because the relative motion between the rotating field and the rotator is the key of torque production,
the slip s is defined as you can see in this slide, where omega s represents the synchronous
speed and omega r is the rotor speed.
In this slide, you can see the equivalent circuit of the induction machine.
In this slide, you can find the equation of the torque.
In the right of this slide, we can see the link between the rotor speed and torque.
If the speed of the rotor is synchronous with the angular speed of the stator magnetic field,
no torque is produced by the motor because no current is induced in the rotor windings.
If the rotor rotates at a lower speed than the stator field, so the rotor speed is in the left part of the plot,
the motor runs in motoring mode.
Otherwise, if the rotor rotates at a higher speed than the stator field, so the rotor speed is in the right part of the plot,
the motor runs in generator mode.
In this plot, you can see the relationship between torque, speed and frequency of three-phase voltage or current.
For constant frequency, you can have a maximum torque that are almost the same for the frequencies, but different maximum speed.
Control switch between the frequencies to stay on the maximum torque possible for that speed.
In terms of high cost, need for maintenance and lack of startiness, the one rotor induction motor is less attractive than the squirrel cage counterpart,
especially for electric propulsion in electric vehicles.
The squirrel cage induction motor is loosely named as the induction motor for electric vehicle propulsion.
In addition to the common advantages of commutator-less motor drives, the induction motor drives possess the definite advantages of low cost and ruggedness.
Disadvantages can generally upweigh their major disadvantage of control complexity and facilitate this technology being widely accepted for electric vehicles.
The permanent magnet motors are currently the most attractive motor drives for electric vehicle propulsion.
For the use of permanent magnets, they can have high power density and high efficiency, but we can also have problems like the high cost and thermal instability of the permanent magnet material.
Divide the permanent magnet brushless machine in permanent magnet synchronous motor and permanent magnet PLDC machine.
Brushless synchronous motors can be categorized as follows according to the shape of the back EMF developed at the air gap.
Petsodal for BLDC machine and sinusoidal for PMSM.
The structure of the permanent magnet brushes machine is the same for both PMSM and BLDC and consists of a stator housing a winding,
typically is three-phase connected in star or delta configuration.
A rotor equipped with permanent magnet that generates a magnetic field in the air gap,
feels quite similar to the induction motor's rotor magnetic field.
It's simpler compared with induction machine because here we don't have the cage bars and hand rings.
In this electric machine, the rotor rotates at the same speed as the rotating magnetic field of the stator,
the stator, so the mechanical speed of the rotor coincides with the synchronous speed of the stator magnetic field.
In this slide you can find the equivalent circuit of the permanent magnet synchronous motor.
In this slide you can find the equation at the top.
The working principle of a BLDC machine, similar to the PMSM machine, is based on the interaction of trapezoidal back EMF waveforms and rectangular armature current waveforms.
The BLDC motors are electronically commuted motors to help in achieving any directional torque as with mechanical commutation.
In the BLDC machine, we can use the DQ modeling as the PMSM machine because the back EMF are trapezoidal and not sinusoidal.
It is necessary to derive the model of the PM brushless machine in terms of its state variables.
In this slide you can find the equivalent circuit of the BLDC machine.
In this slide you can find the equation of the torque.
The switched reluctance motor is an electric motor that runs by reluctance torque.
The motor has no magnets or coils attached.
It is a solid salient pole rotor made of soft magnetic material.
When power is applied to the stator windings, the rotor's magnetic reluctance creates a force that attempts to align the rotor pole with the nearest stator pole.
In order to maintain rotation, an electronic control system switches on the windings of successive stator poles in sequence so that the magnetic field of the stator leads the rotor pole, pulling it forward.
As a reminder, in this slide you can see the basic architecture of a motion control system.
We can have an electric source, a stage of power converter, this transforms the voltage from DC to AC.
A lot of sensors, a controller and an electric machine that converts the electric energy to mechanical energy.
In this part we can talk about the control strategies.
In the right you can see the voltage to frequency control that it can still be found in industrial drives.
The method is a scalar method and it operates just on the module of the control quantities involved.
The main drawback is its limited dynamic performance.
With the letter ABC is denoted the static three-phase frame of the power supply system, with alpha beta the equivalent two-phase stator reference system, and with DQ the reference system joined with the rotor and that rotates with the same speed of the rotor.
We can pass from ABC frame to the operator.
We can pass from ABC frame to the alpha beta with Park transformation and from alpha beta to DQ frame with Clark transformation.
In this slide you can find the matrix you must applicate to transform from ABC frame to alpha beta frame and from alpha beta to DQ.
As you can see with these two transformations we can pass from a three-phase frame to a two-phase reference system that rotates with the rotor.
This is useful because we can use the same control strategies, the simple one from DC machines.
The speed-oriented control uses this advantage from the Clark and Park transformation and it's the most used control strategy for inverter-fed variable speed drives.
This control transforms the instantaneous three-phase system values that depend from the time, such as current and voltages, into an orthogonal two-dimensional coordinate system by means of the Park and Clark transformation.
This reference system rotates with the same frequency as the three-phase values.
So we pass from a three AC quantities to two DC quantities that can be represented as a space vector in two-dimensional coordinate system.
So this technique controls the variable of interest in module and phase with the aim of separating the current components that contribute to the flux and torque.
With this type of regulation it's possible to obtain rapid response and good adaption.
Here you can find all advantages of field-oriented control.
In this slide you can find the main structure of the field-oriented control.
The addition of mentorship is to focus on kinely WRfs and why you can use the maximum capacity because it must be established to keep doing that with the median, surprising tests that with the MC traits there.
In this slide you can find a gesprochen spelled B as an interviewed by the other.
Además line saúde-based control.
Have the challenge to have health care of your allegiance with Cornerstone or
