Hello to everyone, I'm Massimiliano Schettino and today we will follow a lesson on Test Automation topic, an important talk for word.
I know there could be someone who might not like coding activities and who probably will never automate a test in his working life.
But I can assure you that Test Automation is becoming even more important and that learning its basic could help you a lot in future.
Let's start.
As you can see in this first summary, we will start with an introduction on the Test Automation concept,
focusing our attention on the reasons why it is spreading in automatic files and on its pros and cons, if there are any.
Then we will make an overview of some of the most used tools for automation purposes.
Cano with the integration of CAPL, Vtest Studio and DCU Test.
The automation testing is the process of using tools, scripts and softwares to perform test cases.
Test Automation focuses on replacing manual-like human activity with systems or devices.
But why we should prefer it to manual testing? Let's see.
As you probably know, the main validation activities can be summarized with this graphic.
The starting point is usually a requirement list, the test to be analyzed in order to understand how the device under test should work.
Using requirement as reference, test cases have to be written, so that they can be performed.
Finally, a report has to be compiled and analyzed to find possible errors in the UET behavior or in the test execution.
But this is not the end of the process.
If you are testing an ECU software, for example, a new release will be periodically available for testing.
Again, for a single software release, we could perform the same tests multiple times,
or because there is the need to consider different conditions, or because we realize it has been previously done in a wrong way.
So, steps 3 and 4 will be cyclically repeated.
Let's now introduce test automation in this workflow.
With the automation, the first step does not change.
It continues to be done manually.
But we can now split the second step in two parts.
With test writing, I still mean writing tests in a human understandable language,
with proper tools like EBM doors or with more generic ones like Excel.
With test automation, instead, I am referring to writing automatic tests with code or programming language,
in one of the tools I was mentioning before.
If requirements are clear enough and well-structured,
the first sub-step can also be avoided and tests can be directly automated.
These automatic tests have then to be validated,
in order to be sure that they have been correctly implemented and so they are ready to be executed.
At this point, most of the work is done.
You have only to perform the tests and analyze the report automatically generated by the tool.
So, we have essentially moved the focus from step 3,
that is the core of the manual validation activity, to step 2, the test automation.
But let's see what we have gained.
First of all, it is a very reliable method.
Human-generated error is reduced to automatic test generation.
Then, it is fast.
Obviously, a modern laptop can execute an operation sequence much faster than a human can.
And it is also repeatable.
Automatic tests have to be written just once.
Then, they can be executed for each software release.
But what if it is the project to change?
Again, no problem.
Since usually, doing few changes to automatic tests is enough to adapt them.
And so, it is versatile.
As for the flexibility, test automation allows us to run tests not just during work hours, but also during the night.
All these features increase a lot the number of tests runnable per day, making it a very efficient test method.
All the characteristics reported in the previous slide lead to the probably best advantage in test automation.
The reduction of the validation cost activity.
But we have also to consider that automation allows to safely execute tests on hardware and loop that could be dangerous for a manual tester or for a vehicle.
And the same applies to those tests that require conditions hard to reach for a human tester.
As those relative to a very precise timing.
In the end, automation testers do not have to worry about compiling reports.
Usually, automation tools give as an output very detailed test reports at the end of each execution.
Obviously, test automation has some limitations.
There will always be some tests that cannot be automated or some others easier to perform manually than to be automated.
And even if it allows an overall saving of time, human effort and money, at a certain point of validation, it requires a huge investment of these elements in order to buy and configure the needed hardware and or tool licenses and to write the automatic tests.
So, if thanks to manual testing, it is possible to ensure an average of tests performed per day from day one, with automation validation times become more irregular.
I could conclude this introduction inviting you to consider that they have simplified automation concept and that each project could require a different level of automation.
It is possible to automate just a part of the test list, choosing the ones easier to be automated or the ones harder to be performed manually, so that manual execution can continue meanwhile test automation is going.
Otherwise, manual testers could help automatically once in order to automate the entire list of tests.
Again, automation can rise to a next level, in which a Python code translates written tests or even requirements in automatic tests, leaving to the tester the task of validating them.
Test automation opens the door to a very wide range of combinations, where the only limits are testers' skill and project constraints.
Let's see now how what we have talked about translates into practice analyzing three tools that allow us to automate tests.
First, you should be able to find a dedicated lesson for each of them in the automotive training, so I will not explain in detail how to use them, since I just want to show the different approaches to automation that they offer.
Let's start with the first one, CANU.
From the previous lesson, you should know that CANU is a vector tool used for a very wide range of validation activities.
One of its main features is that we can import all the databases you need, and each network will be simulated by default.
CANU automatically creates a simulation for the messages of each ECU, with the information defined in the database, but obviously it is not going to simulate the logic which is behind each signal.
We can easily modify the signal values thanks to node panel, but always in a manual test condition.
The switch from manual to automation testing is made possible by CAPL scripts.
First of all, because by editing network nodes, we can simulate the ECU's behavior, or more probably the part of it that we need for our tests.
But we can also add a CAPL test module, useful to create automatic tests and to generate reports.
Let's see both of them more in detail.
Network nodes allows us to implement a wide range of functionalities.
ECU software simulation.
Essentially, we can define the conditions in which messages are or not sent, and in which signal values change.
Panel control, we can create complex systems by establishing what happens when the system variables connected to the panel elements change their values.
Heal control, we can implement a control strategy for hardware-in-the-loop instrumentation connected to the laptop where CANON measurement is running, and others.
In this slide, you can see two examples.
The first one, top left, is used in order to activate heel instrumentation when a measurement starts,
and the second one, bottom right, is needed to simulate the signal that the easy use of an electric vehicle sent to the onboard charger in order to start the charging process.
CAPL test modules, instead, contain all the test cases, functions, and variables useful for the test execution and reward generation.
This is an example on the usage of diagnostic functions in CAPL test modules.
In include section, we can add libraries.
In this case, sim.diag.esu is a CAPL script containing functions called in the test cases.
In variable brackets, we will find global variables we can use in the entire test module.
Main test is the only block executed when start command is given in CANOTEST tab.
All the test cases to be performed have to be listed here.
Outside this block, we can define functions and test cases.
Test case 1, for example, starts with the definition of local variables.
That can be used in this test only, and then it continues with the test step.
It has blocks in which the test cases is divided for other reasons.
For each test step, we can add information in the test report, execute actions, wait for some events, and define the pass and fail conditions.
Then we will pass to the next step, so to the next test case or function, and that's on, until the completion of the test unit.
Once the code has been compiled and executed, CANOT will auto-generate a test report with a structure similar to this one.
Here, we can find time sum and the result of each test step, plus each info we have requested in the code, like diagnostic services sent, diagnostic responses, comments, signal values, and so on.
Vtest Studio is a vector-powerful development environment for creating automated test designs.
To increase the efficiency and to simplify the reliability of test designs,
Vtest Studio provides either programming-based, table-based, and graphical test notations and test development methods.
Let's see them one by one.
Test table editor is the main Vtest Studio automation method.
Each test is symbolized by a folder containing a sequence of instructions.
It has a list of predefined test commands in CAPL code that will be sequentially executed.
In the slide, we can recognize, for example, a set to define a symbol value, a weight for a certain time, and a check in order to read a symbol value and to compare it with the target.
In order to use them, we have just to drag and drop them inside the test and to parameterize them as we prefer.
Direct calls to CAPL and C code portions and functions are available in order to execute any action not covered by these predefined commands.
In the same view, we will find also a list of tests, one of user functions, and another with the symbols, so network signals and system variables.
If we need to test a not-too-complicated logic, we can obtain a clear and concise representation of the same, thanks to test sequence diagram.
Each graphical element can be added again by dragging and dropping them out of a toolbox, and the test case for each path through the diagram will be automatically generated.
Vtest Studio offers also a trade-off between the previous two methods.
Set diagram has both test table editor elements, access to symbols, predefined commands, user-defined function, and test sequence diagram once, as graphic view and automatic test generation.
As it is easy to see, it is perfect for set machine tests.
In the end, there is also the possibility to open the CAPL programming editor, whose explanation is behind the scope of this lesson.
As you have probably realized by now, there is a strong link between Vtest Studio and Kano.
In fact, you can import Kano configuration inside Vtest Studio in order to use in both tools the same variables and network signals.
In Kano is it also possible to add a test configuration, a panel with which to choose Vtest Studio tests and to run them while measurement is ongoing.
Once the execution is finished, from the same panel it is possible to open the test report.
It has the same structure of CAPL test module 1, with the difference that we have not to indicate during test implementation what we need inside the report,
since it will be automatically filled with all statistics, results, and step details.
Obviously, we can also add some comments or additional info.
The last tool I want to tell you about is ECU-Test.
It is not as known as vectors tools, but it is not less powerful.
ECU-Test is a software tool developed by TestTronic for test and validation of embedded systems,
and used as a standard tool in the development of automotive ECUs.
It allows to automate the control of the whole test environment,
supports a broad range of test tools, and facilitates each validation step.
ECU-Test is based on very user-friendly commands and interfaces,
does not require programming skills, and allows to use shared libraries.
In this image, you can identify a common software development and integration workflow.
The starting point is the requirement, from which the software or the function is developed.
The software model is used as base in order to generate the code creating a software code.
Individual codes are then integrated to obtain the software code of a control unit,
and, connecting together all these use, a first prototype of our vehicle will be ready.
The task of the validation team is starting from a test specification document,
to generate and execute tests for each of the steps just listed.
And the first powerful ECU-Test feature is the possibility to cover all of them.
And I will tell you more.
It can be done using a single automatic test.
Thanks the possibility to connect to all necessary validation tools, in fact,
ECU-Test allows us to test the same functionality, either in modeling a loop,
in order to test the controller logic on the simulated model of the plant,
or in software-in-loop, where you test code generated from the model,
or in hardware-in-loop, in which one or just few ECUs are tested in a simulated environment,
or in vehicle-in-loop system, to test the entire vehicle.
Here we can see the main possible scenarios that may arise during a project and that could stamp validation team.
It happens often enough that a different software version is realized,
and so signal names, calibrations, and model parameters will change.
But it may also happen that it is the ECU version to be modified.
In this case, we should deal with differences in the pinout,
pins added or deleted, pins numbers changed, new sensor and or activators, and so on.
Again, it is not so rare that a different heel version is chosen.
Variation tools, plant model, and network may be subject to change.
In the end, the worst case is the decision to modify all test bench technologies,
and so not only tools and connection will change, but IO and the entire logic behind our system too.
A second ECU test strength is the possibility to cope all these changes
without modifying all the test cases already written.
This is connected to another ECU characteristic.
It has the chance to connect together a wide range of validation tools and test benches,
regardless of the company, and to make them cooperate.
This avoids any kind of limitation in the choice of a software or hardware component
different from the one used until a certain point.
Tracetronix was able to create a tool with all these unviable features
thanks to a very particular and stratified structure, summarized in this image.
On the left, we can see the system under test that communicates with one of the test environments we saw in the previous slides.
ECU test is able to interact both with the system and the test bench thanks to specific ports.
There are two files that make this possible.
The first one, called test configuration, contains the description of the environment, DBC, TCF, and the test settings.
The second one, test bench configuration, contains the list of the validation tools ECU tests can connect to and their relative setups.
As for test cases, in ECU tests they are represented by elements called packages and collected and organized in projects.
Each package is composed by test steps, that can be atomic actions, wait, read, write, or sub-packages.
It has links to another package, like functions.
It is important to underline that each action we want to execute is not performed by ECU test itself, but it is just a request to a connected tool or to the system in loop.
ECU test is not able to read a canned signal, but it can ask Kanu, for example, to read it and return its value.
In same way, ECU test can request a signal recording and then a trace analysis.
After each package or project execution, a test report will always be generated and presented.
The slides show, in a better way, the possibilities offered by test configuration,
that managing databases, health simulation models, test reports, settings, and so on, makes ECU test independent from the environment.
And the test bench configuration, that allows ECU test to communicate with a wide range of hardware and software components.
This is ECU test view when a package is open.
Top left, you can see global mapping window, another of the elements that make this tool so interesting.
Instead of using a network signal or an internal variable as it is, we can add it to a global mapping and insert this new object in the test.
So, if for one of the already explained reasons, any of these elements should change, it will be enough to modify the relative global mapping object and all the involved tests will automatically update.
Bottom left, we have the action tab, in which we can find all the elements we could need in our tests.
As predefined functions, bus signals, diagnostic requests, fault injection elements, and so on.
In order to use them, we have just to drag and drop them in the right part, where we find the editor panel.
This is the package and so the test, structured as a sequence of consecutive test steps, like variable write, weight, signal read, conditional instructions, and so on.
In the end, the bottom right part shows the list of local variables we can create and use in our test.
Once the package has been completed and compiled, it can be executed.
ECU test will show each test step result in real time.
At the end, a report like this will be auto-generated and showed to the tester.
As you can see, it is not so full of details, such as Vtest Studio One, but for sure it is more clean and clear.
I would like to conclude this lesson with a comparative table between the three tools we have seen together.
Let's start with the configurations we have to set before we start implementing our tests.
For CAPL and Vtest Studio, we just need to configure the Canon project.
While ECU test, that is connected to several tools, needs to configure all of them and ECU test itself.
That though, we implement our tests.
If you remember, with CAPL we have to write instructions line by line,
while the other tools make available predefined functions to be dragged and dropped and to be parameterized.
For this reason, CAPL requires a programming skill directly proportional to test complexity.
Vtest Studio a limited one, cause we can still add CAPL lines, and ECU test does not need it.
With CAPL, we have to write a line for each info we want to read in the test report, making it totally customizable.
We cannot say the same for the other two, but if Vtest Studio report is very rich in details, ECU test 1 is more simple and intuitive.
The last voice is the robustness against change of signals, variables, buses, and so on.
Vector tools require a rework of the already implemented test.
Unlike ECU test, that has several features that, if correctly used, can save a lot of time.
I hope you all enjoyed my lesson.
For any doubt or question, here you can find my email.
I can only say thank you for your attention and goodbye.
Thank you for your attention and goodbye.
