Hi all, today we are going to have a little discussion on process, in particular we will
introduce process in the automotive framework with the particular attention to the general
bicycle model which is the development process mostly used in automotive sector.
Okay, let's see briefly the contents of this lesson. We will make a brief introduction to the
automotive framework, so we will present some numbers and facts about the automotive framework
just to introduce you to this work. Then we will go on with the simple definition of process,
simple and generic definition of process, then we will apply it to the automotive framework, then we
will discuss the v-cycle process, a particular development process which is established in
aerospace industry, and then it's been used in every integration environment such as also the
automotive industry, and then we will conclude with an example of running the cycle process to
to clear the idea on how it is used.
Okay, some interesting facts and figures about the automotive industry. The automotive industry is
very old, it began in 1860 and it has more than 150 years of history. This whole time, automotive industry
industry has been full of technology challenges. You can think about for example the evolution of internal
combustion engine, its optimization for efficiency and technological impact or for example the goals reached
in the fields of safety, so how to make the vehicles more safe and secure.
The introduction of electronics and software inside the vehicles, the autonomous driving concept
and the electric propulsion development which are the topics very hot right now.
So the whole history of the automotive sector has been a technological race to improve, to get better,
or to introduce new technology and new services inside the industry.
Some interesting numbers just to introduce you to the industry. These data are updated to 2017 but
are still actual and usable. In these last years, almost 100 millions of vehicles have been produced yearly. The trend is
descending. This is also because of Covid. This might surprise you, but most units are produced in China, actually.
Where in 2018 were produced more vehicles than USA, Japan, Germany and Italy combined. So 28 millions.
But on the other hand, quality, which can be improperly measured as revenues of an automotive car maker,
are dominated by European, in particular Germans, which score with three groups in the top 10.
in the top 10. The first one is Volkswagen Group, which includes Volkswagen, Audi, Porsche,
Skoda, Lamborghini and Bentley brands. And had revenues for 260 billions, so it's first.
At third place, the Demi Group, which is composed by brands Mercedes-Benz, Smart and Maybach. And in the
seventh place, BMW Group Group with BMW, Mini and Ross-Royce.
Okay, so now let's focus a bit more on this object, the car, the vehicle, but let's try to think about it
by the means of the people that want to produce it, they want to build it, not the one that want
to buy it and use it. So let's be in the shoes of the car maker. What is a car for a car maker?
Well, first of all, it is a purpose built layers of components. What does it mean purpose built?
It means that a vehicle, when it is designed, when it is created, it has to accomplish, it has to satisfy
a mission. For example, you can think about a small city car. Its mission will be low fuel consumption,
space optimization, in order to make it easy to park, for example, in large cities. It has to be small,
it has to be cheap to produce and so on. This is the mission of the vehicle. For example, for a sports
car, car maker, such as Ferrari, the mission can be completely different. The mission for a Ferrari car
will be something like, okay, I want very, very, very high power. So I want 1000 horsepower for my engine,
I want a fun to drive, I want increased performance, I want luxury and the best materials
achievable, no matter the cost and so on. So the mission is the first thing that the car maker think
go up, think about when it's starting to design a new car. And this, it is also a layers of components.
The vehicle, it's, it does not
start in the design phase as a whole object, but it is composed by several layers, such as the mechanical
layers, the hardware and software layers, the electronic layers, or for example, the liquids, the oils, the
glues that are composed and so on. All these layers must to work together in order to
allow the car to accomplish its mission. It is easy to understand that the complexity of
assembling and make a product of these multiple layers is very high. And this brings us to the
the main reason of this lesson, the main cause of this lesson, such a such is an appropriate
organizational effort is required in order to manage this complexity in design.
Okay, let's briefly view also how how a car is built from scratch to the final product. We can divide the
the phase of car building of and car designing in in four sub phases. The first one is of course design and
development. In this phase, we start from scratch, we start from paper, we define the mission of the
of the vehicle of the car. And we start to develop it by for example, using objects.
I think you for sure heard about it, such as prototypes that are that are
particular development vehicles with part of functionalities implemented in order to
test it and develop it. For example, you will have the prototype to test the engine, the prototype to
some part of the electronics and so on. During this design and development phase, you will
you will get better and better prototypes that will start to resemble the final product that you start
to resemble a car that is actually accomplishing the mission. Once you have accomplished this goal,
so you have a car that is actually what you wanted to be in the first place, you start with the second phase,
which is productization. So you obtain the car, but now you want to be sure that you can produce it
in a controllable and serial way so that it can be produced in large number, for example.
After productization, you start with the serial production, so your your factory is ready to
replicate that beautiful prototype in a large number of cars. And there's also a fourth phase,
which is after selling the car, which is called servicing. This is the services you provide to the
final user after the car is sold, is on the street. I think you for sure heard some time about the
recall campaign from some car maker, for example, you discover that there is a small defect in a part of
your vehicle and then you send a message, you communicate to the people that own that vehicle
to bring it back to the workshop in order to fix it. This is a typical case of servicing
phase process.
We will focus in this lesson, in this discussion, in the first phase, the design and development.
So we will describe the process that is meant to be used for design and development. It is also used
for product product productization, but we will not be telling that we will focus on design and development phase.
Okay, another interesting information is who builds a car. Most people are used to think that it's the
car maker who make all the effort and all the work to produce a car, but these are that is actually not
true. And we can get convinced about that by starting with dividing our vehicle in different abstraction
layers. We start from the topper one, the vehicle abstraction layer, so the whole vehicle
schematization. Inside this full vehicle schematization there will be, for example,
a sub-level, the subsystem of our vehicle. Inside the subsystem there will be a single component,
such as an electronic control unit in ECU. Inside these single parts there are
the elemental parts that are used to produce such objects, like for example, for an electronic control
unit there will be a microcontroller, transistor, capacitors, and so on.
On the left of the slide you see that the influence, the ownership of the
of the OEM, which means Original Equipment Manufacturer, that is a technical name for
calling the car maker such as FCA, Ferrari or Audi, is decreasing the most we go in deeper detail of what is used to build the car.
The OEM has for sure the ownership of the whole vehicle level, because it knows the mission of the vehicle,
he knows how the vehicle shall be in the end, and of course he has the knowledge on vehicle level.
And let's see how, when we descend into the phase of, into the level of subsystem,
the OEM often it's not capable, it does not have a specific knowledge about the peculiar subsystems, so
it uses the aid of a specialistic suppliers that have knowledge in those subsystems that could help
provide the equipment to build the car. There are actually some OEMs that have knowledge also in subsystems,
one typical example is Ferrari, which is capable of designing the vehicle as a whole, but also it has strong
knowledge in engine construction, so the subsystem engine is completely done in Ferrari.
But most of times, the OEMs ask for help for the such called tire one supplier. A tire one supplier is a supplier
that provides equipment directly to the OEM. A typical example of a famous tire one is a Brembo for the braking system.
Brembo is specialized in designing a braking subsystem for a lot of vehicles, and it is widely used
used by the most performing car for the most performing car for day braking system.
The tire one is also in charge, for example, of the production of parts of the subsystem, such as the
electronic control units, but even for a tire one, it's often impossible to produce every single part
product that is required for the manufacture of a subsystem, which is why they have the tire two suppliers,
that are suppliers that provide equipment to the tire one, equipment that is specialized for the production of
the subsystem. For example, a tire one, which wants to develop a new electronic control unit, may ask
help for, for example, NVIDIA or ST Electronics for a new microcontroller to be used inside the ECU.
So, as you can see, it's not the car maker that makes all the effort, the car maker has the idea of the mission,
but there is a lot of actors involved in the design and the manufacturing of a vehicle.
And this is another view on the complexity of the process of development of a new vehicle.
So, keeping this complexity in mind, let's start to introduce the concept of process. What is a process?
Well, we can for start giving a small introduction on the concept PPT, which stands for people,
process and tools, which is a concept of success in organizing and improve the operational efficiency
of a business. It states that in order to have an efficient operational effort inside the business,
you have to rely on people, of course, so their skills and their knowledge. You have to have the
appropriate tools to perform the work, but all of these aspects shall be connected by a process. What is
a process? A process is a series of steps and actions taken in order to produce a particular goal.
So, it articulates the how aspect of an organization. How do we do what we want to do? The process
describes the how. How would the process interact with tools and people? It is important that people
have clear roles in the process and that they fully understand it. So, the process helps people to
fulfill the role and to interact with each other. And, of course, tools can improve the process, make it
faster. You can think, for example, to what can be done with pencil and paper and what can be done with
the personal computer for designing a visual. We can make a very simple example of a process that you
will see it's actually applicable to any kind of problem. And a process can very simply
schema-schematized in this way. I have an idea or a need. I want to accomplish something.
So, I need to have a product that implement that idea. And then I need to check if the product
is accomplish my idea or not. You can make a simple example of a cooking example that is very simple
to understand. Let's imagine that you want a pizza. You want to eat a pizza and you decide that you want
to do it on your own. So, the idea is I want a pizza and I want to do it on my own. The first thing
you do, you ask, for example, to your mother or your grandmother or you search in the internet for
recipes. So, a list of steps that describe how the pizza is made. At the end, you will have a product,
a pizza, no matter how it is actually. The first thing you do after you have a pizza, you will eat a slice,
you will try a slice, then maybe the pizza is good. So, fine, you accomplished your idea, you accomplished
your goal, but maybe it's not so good. So, what are you going to do? You start again,
you go back in this process to see what went wrong. For example, did you use the correct recipe?
Did you describe it properly? Maybe you understand that you don't have the manual skills to do the pizza
yourself. So, your new process will be, okay, I just search for a good pizza restaurant on Just Eat and I
will order from that and I will try again. This kind of process is very simple, but it's actually
applicable and it is actually applied even to very complex environment and it is very useful because
we can start to introduce some specific naming convention of what is used in automotive industry
and in general in process for industrial application. Maybe you also heard some of these
names or concepts. The first is requirements. The requirements are the way we express our idea and
our need. Technically, it's a singular documented need that the product aims to satisfy. For example,
when I want to define the mission of my vehicle, I will write down things like, okay, I want 1000 horsepower.
That is a requirement. I want something that will become a goal for my project.
Another important terminology is deliverables. Deliverables is a tangible or intangible good or service
product as a result of a project or part of a project. That is important. The product is not only
the final product, but also all the things that I make during the process to help obtaining the final
product. For example, we were talking earlier of a pizza. The piece of paper on which I write
the recipe is deliverable. It's a product because it can be checked, it can be modified, it can be
tracked and so on. So also the output of single phases of the process are deliverables, are products.
The last term, very important, is validation. The validation is a procedure meant to check if a
product meets the product meets the requirements. So it's actually what we also call testing. We test
our final product to see if the requirements, if the idea and the needs we expressed at the beginning
are actually satisfied. As I was saying, this very simple concept can be applied even to a complex
environment like the automotive industry. For example, nothing forbid me to put in cascade the phases of the
design of a vehicle. I can start with a very high level vehicle concept, as we said before, OEM based.
So we will have the writing of the requirements for the definition of the mission. For example,
we can have another phase after that, the system design and the system architecture. We, for example,
we will produce a drawing with the ECU topology, how the ECU are connected between each other, how they
communicate. So the standards that allow us the communication between ECU. These are
requirements made at system level. Then we can descend to the subsystem, where we apply this simple
process to subsystems, usually lead led by tier one. Then we can apply this process. So requirements,
product and the validation to component design. So the requirements for the single components that
are used for manufacturing this subsystem. And then we are a phase in which we implement everything.
And of course, we will have the validation phase, the testing phase. So for each phase,
we will have its testing phase, its validation phase. Component design will have component testing.
Subsystem design will have integration testing. So we integrate the components inside the subsystem
and see if the subsystem is actually doing what it is meant to do. And then we have a phase of
functional testing, which is a testing at vehicle level. So we check, we test if the vehicle is
performing the way we define in the mission.
Okay. There is actually this kind of process is called waterfall. As you see, every phase is
as a beginning and an end, and you have to do the first phase in order to proceed to the other. So you
have first to do the vehicle concept, then you will go to the system and assign and so on.
But there is actually another way to to see how this phase we were talking about are connected
between each other. And this lead us lead us to the famous recycle model that we will describe now.
Let's just put the very same phases of the process we've seen before, but in a different fashion,
in a different way. Let's put all the design part on a left branch starting from the vehicle
schematization. So we've got concept and system design architecture, then subsystem design,
then component design. Let's put implementation on the bottom and let's start with another branch
on the right with all the component testing, components integration and functional.
We can call the left branch design and development branch, right branch quality assurance branch.
And the horizontal dimension in this case is the project management. So how I manage these phases
all together, but in another way, it's also the time of the project. We start from the left and we end
on the right always. An important thing we can notice by putting the phases in this shape is that there is
actually some affinity between the phases on the design branch and the phases on the testing on the quality
assurance branch. They are thematically similar.
one to another. So, for example, I can think about parallelizing some activities,
for example, on vehicle level. When I write my requirement regarding vehicle concept and system design,
for example, I could involve my colleagues in functional testing, which do not have anything to test
yet, but they can check my requirement. They can give additional eyes, they can put other brains
on my requirements, they can check it, they can see if they are coherent, they are consistent,
they are testable and so on. They can actually help me improve the quality of my requirement phase. And the
same goes for integration test and unit test design. So the colleagues from the right branch can be involved
before the product is actually manufactured, before the testing can start, in order to make a verification
application or on the work on made in the design phase. This is a way of parallelizing activity to
to make more activity in the time unit and also to improve quality. It has been
demonstrated, especially for the software development that this kind of approach, this physical approach
can lead to a higher quality once you reach the implementation phase. For example,
the number of bugs that a software developed with this process is 50% less than using the waterfall approach,
so without this additional check.
The activity can be parallelized also inside the same branch. As we said, the horizontal dimension
can also be seen as the time and let's make an example just to make you understand how the activities
can be parallelized. Let's assume that the width of the block of the phases are actually the time
required to end the whole phase. As we can see, by putting in a v-shape, the projection on the time axis
of two blocks, for example, subsystem design and component design is less than the sum of the
singular time required for subsystem design and component design. This is because it is possible to
do the same kind of verification, the same kind of check between these two processes. So while I'm, for
example, in subsystem design, I can do part of the work and then give it to the component design colleagues
that can check if they can understand it, if it's feasible, if it's consistent and so on. So they can make
in parallel this additional check in order to save time, in order to save project time.
A really important feature of the Divocycle is that it's completely scalable. What does it mean?
We are now seeing the Divocycle process applied to the whole vehicle, but what about, for example,
if we explore the subsystem design phase, I can use the Vocycle, for example, for the software of my subsystem.
So I can adapt the phase and I will have a software requirement phase and software architecture and
software design configuration on the design and development branch. And I will have unit testing,
integration testing and functional testing of the whole software. The process is exactly the same,
but it's used to develop the software. This is very important because it allows the various actors
we've seen before, the OEM, for example, Tire 1 and Tire 2, to speak the same language when they
interact with each other for the design and development of vehicle subsystem and components.
They can use the same terminology, they can use the same phases, and it's very easy for them to coordinate
between each other when they are applying the very same process, the Vocycle process.
There are also advanced use of the Vocycle process. For example, it is possible to make iteration or to
apply the agility concept to it. This means, for example, I can make iteration, for example, between two
consequent phases of my process in order to improve quality. So I can reiterate the process more and
more time on small parts of the design in order to improve the quality. And I also can do iteration
of the quality assurance brands. For example, I can do subsystem design, integration testing, reiterating
it, adding new functionalities to every iteration in order to keep things under control and improve
quality. The same for component design and component testing.
So let's make a very quick example of a running Vocycle.
From now on, you will see on the top right of the slide the phase of the process in which we are.
So you don't get lost with the discussion. For the example, we will imagine we want to
introduce a new functionality in our airbag subsystem, in our vehicle. Now the airbag system is a critical
module module of a vehicle because it has the safety of the driver and the occupant of the vehicle are
involved. And basically, an airbag system has two requirements, two main requirements. It has to
deploy flawlessly in case of a major accident. So it has to deploy always in case of an accident.
But at the same time, it doesn't have to deploy, never has to deploy when it is not required because
it is dangerous when it is deployed like that. So it is easy to understand that the
malfunction of the airbag system shall be promptly and properly notified to the final user. The final
user has to know when, for any reason, the airbag system of his vehicle is not functioning. So let's
imagine we want to introduce, we want to add this notification feature to our car.
And for example, the first thing we may be reasoning about is how I do this notification, where I put
this notification physically inside the car. For example, the first candidate could be the
IPC subsystem, the instrument panel cluster, which is the first thing the driver see when he's driving.
So for example, our first requirement could be that this notification of one function can be
installed in our instrument panel cluster. Then again, we say that airbag system is involved in
functional safety. Our team from functional safety suggests that the mechanism providing the malfunction
notification shall be reliable. We don't want that the notification itself, it's not working for some
reason. So they gave us a metric. For example, they can tell us, I want that the notification is 99% reliable. I want it
to be working 99% of the time. So it should be to be field proof to a certain degree. This is a second requirement at high level, a vehicle concept that we have. Another requirement is that it should be
to be field proof to be field proof to be field proof to a certain degree. This is a second requirement at high level, a vehicle concept that we have. Another example of a requirement at vehicle level,
for example, our homologation colleagues
inform us that there are there are constraints on how
how the notification is given in particular they told us they tell us that a very peculiar icon must be used
and we can choose the color between orange and red, which is red. So we have a dirt requirement. The icon shall be
shaped like to one that is
enforced by the homologation regulations and the color will be red.
So the typical deliverables of the vehicle concept
are basically specification requirements. We put the requirements in a document, in a document that can be
managed, modified and kept and tracked
in which we list all the desired functionalities, the definition of the vehicle mission, homologation
constraints and so on. So it's basically a document.
So what we do with the requirements we wrote at vehicle level, we transfer them to our system design team
and then we start to analyze it and see what they shall do in order to satisfy those requirements.
For example, our system design colleagues tell us that the vehicle has been designed with a domain-based
topology. So we will have
the ECU
connected to each other
and managed by a domain controller, the PWT ECU in this picture. The same for the chassis,
the infotainment and the body, for example.
They tell us, okay, the airbag control unit, the green one, is in the chassis domain.
The instrument panel cluster, the red one, is in the infotainment domain. They are not in the same domain.
We have to...
First thing to do is to allow the communication
of the information of the malfunction between
the airbag control unit and the instrument panel cluster.
So they produce the new requirements on their level
to allow the communication between the two subsystems. It will, of course, involve also the chassis
and the infotainment domain controllers. They will write a new protocol, a new message for the
communication protocol that will transport the information of malfunction from the ACU
subsystem to the IPC subsystem.
So that the IPC, once this information is received, can turn on the lamp of the warning
of the warning icon and warn the user that its airbag controller is malfunctioning.
But also
So, from the requirement at the PICOR level, we had the request that the malfunction notification
shall be reliable, shall be very reliable. So our system engineers decide to violate locally
the isolation of the domains by adding a direct communication between the ACU and the IPC
in order to transport the very same information with a different medium. In this case,
it's a simple pin-to-pin electrical communication. So when the ACU detect a malfunction, we will send
the message on the communication bus and also will raise the voltage on this pin-to-pin communication
in order to give the information to the IPC in two different ways. We actually
create the redundancy in order to improve the reliability of the system.
Okay. Typical derivables of this phase.
It's, for example, the ACU topology, like the picture you are watching now.
Of course, it will be more detailed, but basically how the ACU are connected between each other.
The communication bus specification, so the list of messages that every ACU exchange with the others.
And there may be documents, called vehicle functions, that are specification,
specific specification, detailed on the subsystem functionalities. For example,
there will be a document called airbag management, which explains all the functionalities that are related
to the airbag subsystem. With these requirements at system level, we can now involve the subsystem designer,
typically a tier one or more than one tier one, with our system requirements. For example, we will send
the system requirements to the suppliers that provide us the airbag control unit. And we say, okay,
these are the functionalities we want to implement. Just modify your subsystem in order to comply with it.
The same will be done with the IPC and the Enforcement Chassis Domain Controller. So, for example, the ACU
tier one will decide that it shall be possible by its subsystem to have diagnostic functionality implemented,
because it has to be capable of detecting an error upon itself. For example, the software shall be capable of
detecting if an actuator or a sensor is disconnected or it's not working,
testing and so on. And so that the information of my function can be produced and can be put on the
communication bus and on the dedicated pin. In a similar way, the tier one from the IPC will modify its
subsystem in order to accept the information from the communication bus and the dedicated pin.
the software will be modified in order to interpret this information and use to trigger the turning on of
the lamp to get red light behind the icon on the dashboard. For the two domains controller,
in this case, it's done what is called the gateway. So, the chassis and the infotainment will
receive the information from the ECU in their domain and will just put it on the other communication
channel in order to allow the switch of domain. So, to transfer the information without modification to
the other domain. At this level, we typically have deliverables such as the hardware schematics or the
so-called software design and software requirements specification. So, everything which is the software
of the subsystem is produced in this phase and we also have the input output specification of the subsystems.
Then we go at components level. The components for even for a simple application like that will be
thousands. So, we'll just focus on the most important one, the most visible one, which is
the red light, the red lead. And of course, the tire one that produces the IPC, it's not also a producer of lead,
a manufacturer of lead. So, they will call a tire two specialized in building of lead light.
They will ask for a red lead. And the tire two will provide, for example, a catalog of or a spreadsheet of
possible candidates. The tire one can choose the one that is more appropriate for the application and it
will install it in the subsystem. This is the usual way to interact with tire two. So, you don't develop a new lead
for the application, but you just choose an already existing lead, which is a good match for your application.
And then we have all the components. We have designed the subsystems and non-vehicle concept. We are done. So, we can implement
all the modification and we will start to test it. Of course, you start testing at component level. So, the lower level. But
let me ask you something. It is possible, for example, do you believe it's possible to test
the lead before it's actually installed in the vehicle? The answer is, of course, yes. You can
parallelize the activity testing and, for example, you can use a little bench with just minimal electronics
in order to test if the lead does turn on when the current is applied or not. So, you don't have
actually to wait for the whole implementation to test it. This is another way in which you can
parallelize activities in the vehicle. Basically, for the component testing, but this is also applicable
for every kind of testing. The testing activity itself is basically making the right questions and
providing the answer. For the lead, for example, the question can be, does the lead turn when powered?
The components work as it is intended to do? The answer to this question is the test result. So, you do the
test and you check it. Yes or no. It does work or it does not work. If it does not work, let's see
what the problem is. Typical unit tests. So, typical test component level are, for example, a simple piece
of electronics like the lead or capacitor or so on. The testing of a single software module or portion of
software, the testing of electrical harness and so on. The main deliverable of every testing phase,
it's the test result document. So, a list of tests with the result of the test that you can share
with whom may be interested in the test result. Same approach with the integration test at subsystem level. So,
also, you introduce the modification to all the subsystems and you start testing the single subsystem
without putting it in a vehicle. This is also can be done without a full integration in the vehicle. So, you don't
need a fully implemented vehicle to test at this level. You just need to, for example, use an hardware in the loop,
a simulator in which you just connect your single subsystem to see if it does react correctly to the
stimulation from the outside. For example, you can test your air brake control unit at another in the loop
bench. You can, for example, disconnect manually a sensor and test if the software detect it and raise an
error. You can test if, after an error is raised, the information is properly communicated through
the communication bus and dedicated pin and so on. The same can be done for the testing on the IPC subsystem
and infotainment HSC domain controllers. So, you can just test the single subsystem without putting in the
vehicle. The same deliverable is present here as any test phase. So, the integration test result document
but also, usually in this phase, there can be another output, another result which is
commonly called a change request. What is the change request? Imagine the case that you are testing your
subsystem, you discover that actually the implementation is compliant to the requirement. So, it is correct
by a formal point of view, but the behavior, the final behavior, the physical behavior of the subsystem
is not compliant to what it shall be the mission or the expected behavior of the component. In this case,
you highlight this problem by doing a change request. So, you go back to your design colleagues and say,
okay, this is implemented as the requirement says, but maybe it's the requirement itself that is
that is wrong or that is not detailed enough, that is not 100% correct. So, we have to change it,
we have to modify it. So, you actually go back, you go back to the left branch, you modify the requirements
and do another time the cycle in order to see if you corrected the problem.
Same goes for the test at vehicle level, so for the functional tests. In this case, we will actually
implement everything in a vehicle. Usually, in this phase, at the end, a vehicle is required we don't
implement. You do the functionality test, the acceptance test, and for example, you will
analyze things like, okay, I'm setting the car. There is a malfunction. Do I see the icon? The icon
it's evident, it's visible, the color is the right one, the shape is the right one, and so on.
So, the final implementation does satisfy my original requirements at vehicle level.
And again, you will have an integration test result document for this phase, and
if required, a change request if some other problem is detected at this level.
Okay, this was the collection on the cycle. Those are my contacts. If you want to have
clarification or if you have questions to ask, just feel free to contact me by email or on chat.
Thank you, and have a nice day.
