Hello everyone, my name is Pasquale Perrotta and we are going to explain today part of what
diagnosis means in the automotive world. So before we move on to the explanation, I would
just like to give you some references. So as I was saying, I am Pasquale Perrotta, here
there is my email address, which is pasquale.perrotta, head sign kineton.it. And I'm starting the lesson
like this because at the end of the lesson or during the lesson or days after the lesson,
you might have some doubts or curiosities about this topic. So feel free whenever you want to send
me an email to this email address or simply writing me a message in chat. I'll be glad
to answer all your doubts and make your learning process even smoother. So today's topic is
diagnosis. We'll spend probably one hour and a half or something describing this topic. This
is a very huge, huge topic. So it will be divided in few lessons, few exercises. So take your
time to understand every single slide that we are going to describe here. But before moving
to the slides, I always like to start this lesson in this way, showing you a few videos. Let's
start with this one. In Japan, we have old Chinese proverb. It say good is good, but number one is
better. Now, this wretched car, so well engineered and it's top imported car in Germany. Why not we?
It's big and you British think it's excellent good value for money. But what worst of all,
it's number one best selling small car in Europe. And it's not from Japan. The Fiat Uno. Absolutely the
number one best selling small car. So I am, I haven't lost my mind. But these are, here is another video.
Here, these are all commercials of the 80s and 90s. Yeah, this one is about 80s. So let's watch this again. Let's
comment it. In Japan, we have old Chinese proverb. It say good is good, but number one is better. Now, this wretched car.
So, first of all, as you see, the cars coming from the 80s, all the advertisement, you know, the actual
advertisement of 2023 is related to all these space cars with all kind of features inside. They look
extremely futuristic and stuff like this. But in the 80s, what was important about the car was basically
the mechanical advantages that a car had. So there's this guy kicking the car, those other guys just
jumping on the car. Too well engineered and it's top imported car in Germany. Why not we?
It's big and you're British. Yeah, space inside. I think it's excellent, good value. You can fit five
people inside. But what, worst of all, it's number one best selling small car in Europe. Yeah, they,
let's say, they were fast, even though the idea of fast was very different at the time. So, you know,
everything that was mechanically related. And also, what was important was the price,
because these cards were supposed to be cheap. So there are plenty of advertisement here. There is
another one related on how... Yeah, there is also a very weird music on the background.
So, once again, you see that what was important about the car was having space for the family,
but not just for the family.
So, you see, what was important about the car, that was for everyone, for family, for this woman
going around with the dog and so on and so on. Last thing before we actually move on, as we see here
that the car, again, what was the main feature of a car was about the mechanical properties of the car,
the space, the robustness, the speed and stuff like this. Because as you can see, the car
was like a car from 80s, where something like this, where the electronical part of the car was very,
let's say, limited. So, you see, there is just a speedometer, let's say, just showing the speed of the car.
Few lamps, but you see, there is nothing digital. Everything was analogical. You see also other leverage
here for the side errors or DVI air, you know, what was important, yeah, again, the actuation of
the windscreen cleaner and stuff like this. Okay, here, once again, the space, the rear windscreen
cleaner, so, you know, everything that was mechanical, okay? So, that was, that's what was important in a car
in the past. So, you can find plenty of these videos over internet. So, if you look at the advertisement
of the 80s or simply, you go in a museum or wherever in the world that describes, that shows,
cars from the 80s, 70s, even 90s, they are all, they are all related to the mechanical part.
So, everyone stressed out the importance of the mechanical part. I actually live in Torino,
and in Torino, there is a long, long history of, let's say, manufacturer in the 20s, 30s, 40s. So,
the beginning of the 20th century, there were so many car makers in Torino. But what was the main
thing about all these car makers is was every car was made by hand. So, basically, every car was
different from the other. So, you couldn't have the same car produced in the same way every time.
So, whenever you had the problem with your car, basically, you had to bring the car in the same
place, the same, you know, mechanical shop where you could leave the car there and a specific,
specialized person from that car maker would have checked the car and fixed the problem. Some
richer car makers like, I don't know, Lamborghini or Ferrari even sent people directly where the car
was actually to fix the car. So, everyone is gone, every car maker had his own strategy and idea to
produce cars. So, basically, cars were different. Every car was different from another one.
So, that was something possible and feasible in the 60s, 70s, those years, especially in a place
like Italy or, let's say, poor countries in a way, where the amount of car per citizen, let's say,
this kind of statistic, the number of cars for citizens was a very high number, which means
few people had the car, okay? So, it was still possible for the lucky people getting the car to
afford, you know, send someone, send a technician to fix the car. But thanks to the technology
development and the fact that it was easier to produce cars in series, so it was easier to produce
a higher amount of cars. And with the increase of the economy, where people could buy more stuff and
started to think about buying a car, this kind of model of having cars very different from each other
was not really competitive, was not really sustainable. Because one thing was sending a
person to fix one car or ten cars around Italy. Another thing is sending people fixing 100 cars,
1000 cars, 100,000 cars in Italy and in Europe. So, it arrived at the point where the car maker
had to follow a different path. So, the path was not to create extremely original cars. Every car
was completely different and completely new from the other one, but they had to start a standard process
of standardization, okay? Diagnosis, what we are going to describe today is everything related to
standardization, okay? So, this is the reason why the first thing we are going to say is that everything,
everything, guys, that we will mention in this lesson is based on this reference, okay? The ISO 14229,
Unified Diagnostic Services. You will hear so many times the UDS, okay? UDS stands for Unified Diagnostic
Services and basically this is an international standard organization norm 14229. So, this is our
reference. I guess at this point of the of training you have you would have already had the VOOCYCLE lesson
which is specified so much and is stressed out so many times the importance of requirements. This norm
stands for it's we can see this norm as a requirement for everything related to the diagnosis, okay?
This lesson will be divided in many parts and here is why. So, first of all because it's a huge topic so
it's very difficult to do everything in one time but the main reason is that we can divide this norm and as
soon as you start working you will have this norm. So, don't be scared about remembering everything
or taking crazy amount of notes just to write everything down. This norm will be available so
whenever you need something you can check the norm and read things again and step by step you will learn.
But before starting the this module about the diagnosis let's say that we can divide the norm basically
describing it dividing it in four main areas and to give you this kind of information I'm going to use the
most used software in the engineering world which is pain. So, we will have basically four main parts then
you will see that are like 100 parts let's say of the norm but let's focus on four of them. So, one and
this is the topic of today is the DTC which stands for Diagnostic Trouble Code. This is what we are going to
see today. This is everything related to air roads, okay? So, basically the car, the electronic control units but then we will go into details about it,
must be able to understand if there's something wrong and you know saving some error codes but we will
go into details about it today. The other part of the norm are the RDI which is read data by identifier.
This is as it looks like so with the RDI we read some data recalling an identifier. So, I will ask the
electronic control unit can you give me the data inside this in that part of the memory that has got
as a disidentifier and the electronic control unit will reply eventually giving you the information.
The third part is the I.O. or input output.
So, another lesson that you will have already done at this point is related to sensors and actuators. If you
didn't get it I would suggest you to follow that lesson before going through the input output section
of the diagnosis. So, as you have already heard in that lesson every electronic control unit has got
different devices connected to it and one of these could be some actuators. So, through the input output
commands we can command or actuate as we wish some actuators connected to the electronic control unit
for testing purposes, for plenty of purposes. So, this is actually the control of actuators
direct directly connected to the electronic control unit. The fourth part is related to the routine
but the routine the idea behind routine is very easy because routines are basically a set of commands
that are launched automatically by the electronic control unit just using one specific command. I won't
go into details about it because this is subject of another video about the diagnosis. So,
today we will focus only on the first part which is DTC. Guys, this is extremely important to remember
that here we are still talking about the ISO 14229 which is the UDS. This is our reference then I can
make it even bigger in a different color and whatever. So, our reference is this norm. So, first of all,
if something is not clear, of course, you can reach me out with my email in the kinetron chat
and stuff like this. But, before asking all kinds of questions about the diagnosis, first of all, please
have a look to the norms because most likely the doubts that you have is already explained in the norm.
Okay. So, this is extremely important. Let me see if the presentation is going otherwise I'm recording.
Okay. Here we are. So, okay. We will focus on this. Okay. Diagnostic travel code. Let's see.
So, the general... How to say that? The way this lesson will go, it's not me reading some slides
because you can do this on your own. But, I will try to give you an added value to these slides. So,
my suggestion is to read these slides after the presentation. So, first you watch the video,
then you read the slide, eventually you re-watch the video and stuff like this. But, in general,
I will not read the slides. But, in this case, it is extremely important at least to read this first
definition. Okay. So, first we read it and then we will try to divide somehow this definition in
few parts so that we can explain in an easier way what is the diagnosis. So, let's read it first.
Diagnosis. It is the capacity of an electronic system, control unit, equipped with microprocessor,
to carry out a cyclic check through the acquisition, processing and comparison of component signals
directly or indirectly connected, of both internal microprocessor, memory, etc., and external
components belonging to the same system. The result of the diagnosis, in case of failure,
permanent or intermittent detection through the control unit, must be recorded in the dedicated
error of cells of non-volatile memory. Okay. So, I guess you were able to read also by yourself this
definition. So, let's go through it again and let's divide it in simpler parts to to understand what
this all this is all about. So, let's start here. Diagnosis is the capacity of an electronic system,
equipped with microprocessor, to carry out a cyclic check through the acquisition, processing,
and comparison of component signals. So, let's start from this part. I even make it red. Okay. So,
let's start from this one. Okay. So, first of all, let's see what we are talking about. Okay. Control unit.
Probably you already know what is an electronic control unit, but let's look for it already.
Let's go in the image. Yes, electronic control unit. So, this is a clear example of an electronic control unit.
Guys, I have a big suggestion here. I don't know if you have already got in the previous videos, but
this is a suggestion I always give to everyone. This work sometimes could seem abstract. Okay. We will
talk about bit that goes to zero, the other bit goes to one, the variable goes to three, the other map
goes to 47. So, some things that we are going to mention could very look like
abstract, but they are not. So, my suggestion is always to think in a most concrete possible way.
So, the suggestion is always to think in a concrete way. Okay. From the physical point of view. So,
okay, we mentioned the electronic control unit. What is that? This one. Okay. This is an example of an
electronic control unit. So, what we're seeing here, it is the capacity of an electronic system,
in this case, an electronic control unit, equipped with the microprocessor. So, it means that inside
this metallic case, there is a microprocessor. And we see here, there is this green board basically
to carry out the cyclic check. Okay. Through the acquisition, processing and comparison of component
signals. Okay. So, first of all, what is this signal? So, we will have some wires going to these
electronic control units. Okay. So, let's always think from the physical point of view, as I was saying,
we have these electronic control units. Okay. This is a metallic element. Okay. So, it's a piece of metal
with some electronic stuff inside. Okay. In itself, it's meaningless. It's useless. Okay. So, if you take
this electronic control unit in your hand and it's not connected to anything, it's useless. Okay.
So, the definition of diagnosis here says the acquisition, processing and comparison of component
signal. So, first, the electronic control unit must be able to take these signals. So, first of all,
we need a physical connection. Okay. This means that here, to the electronic control unit, here we have other
examples. Okay. To the electronic control units, we will have some wires going inside. Okay. And these
wires are connected here, where there are these connectors. Okay. So, these two big connectors that you
see here, there are like 100 pins and we connect something to these pins. For example, we connect a
temperature sensors. Okay. Or a potentiometer that is used to read the position of the accelerator pedal,
for example. Okay. They must be physically connected to the electronic control unit. They could be,
but in this case, they are connected to an electronic control unit directly using some pins. Okay.
Probably here is an example. You see, this is the electronic control unit. And then we have the pin
for the battery, the detonation sensor, camshaft position sensor, the coolant temperature sensors. This is a
perfect example, actually, to understand that the electronic control unit in itself is useless,
but then we start to connect to the electronic control unit some devices. And we do that. Why?
Because we want to acquire signals. So, we need the sensors, for example, with the sensing part,
reading some information. So, creating basically an information. Okay. So, the temperature sensors will read
the temperature. It will send this information through a wire from the sensor to the electronic control unit.
Then the electronic control unit, of course, needs, first of all, the right hardware to read this
information. Eventually, a transceiver, if we're talking about the can, or simply that, you know,
the right port to read this data. To process this data, because remember, most of the devices that are
connected to the electronic control unit will send or a current or signal in a current signal or an
information through delta voltage. Okay. But if I want to read a temperature, it means that I have
to process the information that I read as voltage and transform this information from voltage to
temperature. Okay. This means processing. And then we have comparison of component signals.
So, why would we need the comparison? So, always remember, here we are talking about diagnosis. And
on paint before, I said diagnostic trouble code. Okay. So, these words should really help you understand
what we are talking about here. Here, we are talking about problems. Okay. So, let's hope you will never face this
kind of topic with your cars. But basically, we are talking about errors here. Okay. So, the comparison
of signals is needed to make sure that everything is okay. So, we take these signals. We process these
signals. For example, let's consider we have two temperature sensors related to the battery pack of
electric cars. The battery pack has to work in an optimized way. The battery pack has to work in a
specific temperature range. So, to make sure that everything is okay, I have, I don't know, two
temperature sensors. These two temperature sensors always tell me, okay, temperature is 35 degrees, 35
because this is a secret check. As soon as the temperature is not 35, but I read, I don't know, 60
degrees. First of all, I compare this information with another temperature sensors to make sure that the
information is plausible and that that's not that the sensor is broken. So, if the temperature is actually 60
60 degrees area and I read 60 degrees on both temperature sensors, then it means that I have that
something is wrong and something is wrong with the battery pack because the temperature is higher than
it should be. And then something will happen. Okay. But since in an electric vehicle, for example,
the battery pack is one of the, eventually, the most important system that we have in the car,
I need to check that everything is okay. Not once in a while, not once every 10 seconds, but probably
this check is done once every 100 milliseconds, once every 50 milliseconds. It can be done also once every 10
milliseconds. So, this means that we will have between 10 and, I don't know, 50 checks every second that
everything is okay. So, here we are starting to understand what is going on from the physical point
of view. We have the electronic control unit that is this one. We have something connected to electronic
control units using these connectors and simple simple wires. Then we read the information from the
sensors and we have the acquisition processing and comparison of component signals. Doing a cyclic check,
most of the time you will see that the check of signals is cyclic with cycle time like 10 milliseconds,
20 milliseconds, 50 milliseconds, or 100 milliseconds. So, everything, most of the checks that are done in
a car, most of the time are less than one second. Almost all of them are the frequency is at least
one hertz, but one hertz is already very rare. Usually, the cycle time of this kind of checks is 10
milliseconds, 1 every 10 milliseconds, 20 milliseconds, 50 milliseconds, and stuff like this. Okay.
Okay. So, let's move on. We have our electronic control units. We have our wonderful devices here. Oops,
I wrongly clicked it. Anyway, now we have something connected to the electronic control unit. Nice. Let's move on
with the definition. Component signals directly or indirectly connected of both internal and external
components belonging to the same system. Okay. Let's change color blue like this. Now we're focusing on
this one without the underline. Okay. So, as we were seeing in this picture, these are all components that
are directly connected to the electronic control unit. This means that all these components have got physical
wires connected connected to this electronic control unit. Okay. Guys, here we are not talking about
the car yet. Okay. Here we have our metallic piece, some sensors and actuators connected to it, and these
elements are all indirectly connected to the electronic control unit. Okay. But what is indirectly connected to
the electronic control unit? Here it says indirectly connected. This means that we are not referring
only on information that comes from devices directly connected to it, but we can also use information that
comes from the CAN network, LIN network, CANFD network, Ethernet network, so from the networks. Okay. Maybe I have a situation
where, okay, let's use, uh, once again, uh, pain. I have a situation where this is my electronic control unit,
one. Okay. Then I have, uh, some, uh, devices connected to it, as we have seen from the, from the picture
below. Then I have two wires related to the CAN network, and on this CAN network, I will have, uh, the echo 2, I will have the
echo 3, I will have the echo, the echo 4, and stuff like this. Okay. So, eventually, I need an information
that comes from a, uh, temperature sensor connected to the echo 4. This information, the information is
created here, it's read here, goes in the electronic control unit. The electronic control unit then provides
this information on CAN network, and then I read the information from the CAN network. So, basically,
from, in my electronic control unit, the electronic control unit 1, I'm using the information coming
from this, uh, from this temperature sensor that is not directly connected to the electronic control unit,
because this is, this connection is not present. Okay. It doesn't exist, but we are using, we are getting
the information anyway, because the information goes directly to the electronic control unit 4.
Then, the electronic control unit 4 gives this information and provides this information on
CAN network, and from here, then, the information could be available for our electronic control unit 1.
So, we need that information, even though the component is not directly connected. Okay. So, here,
we are saying, okay, we do not manage just the, or we do not read just the information coming from the devices
that are, uh, directly connected to the electronic control unit, but I can retrieve information also from, uh,
sensors, actuators, or other issues that are just connected to mine through the CAN network. Okay.
Let's see. So, all of this, okay, is wonderful. So, now, we don't have just the electronic control unit, we don't have just the electronic control unit with the devices,
but we start to have more than one electronic control unit. So, we have the electronic control unit,
the sensors and actuators related to it, the network on which the echo communicates, and we have also other electronic control units. Okay.
So, now, let's see, we have the car. Okay. So, let's add also the mechanical part, and we finally have a car. Okay.
So, we started from a useless metallic piece, and we got to have the car. Okay.
Let's focus on the last part of this definition. Okay. So, we divided finally in three parts, and we use, I don't know,
green or maybe yellow. No, yellow is very weird. So, let's use this one. Okay.
I'm going to underline this because this is extremely important. So, once we have everything that I was
mentioning before, we finally says the results of the diagnosis, and guys, remember, guys, we remember,
the diagnosis is what we were saying before. Okay. It is the capacity of an electronic system with microprocessor to
carry out blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay. So, the result of what everything we have said before is
the results of the non-volatile memory. This means that in case something is wrong with what we have said
before, the result must be recorded in the dedicated error cells of the non-volatile memory.
To connect to the example that we were doing before, if we are reading temperature of the battery pack,
and we see that the temperature is out of an acceptable range, for example, the temperature is 70 degrees,
then the electronic control unit needs to have a software inside that has a logic, first of all,
comparing the two signals, and a logic that in case the information that I see from the sensors is out of a
acceptable range, then the echo realizes there is a failure, a problem, and once the the software inside
the electronic control unit realizes that there is something wrong, an error must be recorded in the
dedicated error cells of the non-volatile memory. So, we arrived here to say that we have a cyclic
check of signals coming from different parts of the car. If we have an electronic control unit with a
board, you know, we saw before this is a board, on this board and the microprocessor we upload a software,
once we receive the physical information from the outside, then this information is acquired
processed and processed, and thanks to the logic inside the software, everything is compared. So, if
something is wrong, then the echo must realize there is a failure and save an error inside the
non-volatile memory. This ends the definition.
But, once again, this presentation is very, very nice.
But yet, I want to go through something more with you. And once again, I have a specific suggestion. My
suggestion is always to think from the, let's say, high level point of view. Let's always find a concrete
example in the reality. Because really, guys, of everything you are going to see in this training,
the diagnosis part will be probably the closest one to the real world, okay? So, with something that you
will see even in your car, okay? So, here on the left, we have the wonderful definition that we used
before, okay? So, everything is clear, hopefully, of what is the diagnosis. Okay, great. So,
what, let's now consider an example, okay? So, let's move from the slide world to the real world.
Let's say one of you is just driving on the highway, and then, for some reason, something wrong,
there is something wrong with the accelerator. Okay, what we expect to happen? So, of course, this is a
recorded lesson. So, I will not give, I will not get feedback from you. Usually, here, all of the nice
answers arrive from the students. But basically, remember, remember always what is the expected
result. We are working on improving the quality of cars. So, we have always to put ourselves inside
these cars and think, okay, what would I expect to happen? So, we are on the highway, we are driving, we are
following the rules of the road, and stuff like this. Then, there's something wrong with the accelerator
pedal. So, first of all, we have a, well, we have one, we have an electronic control unit, okay?
Let's say we have an electronic control unit managing the accelerator pedals, okay? These electronic control
units, we said also in the past, but we are going to say it again, has got some connection with some
devices. In this case, we have a connection with the accelerator pedal, okay? This is very bad handwriting,
but yeah, this is it. So, we have this physical connection. So, it means that we have an electronic
control unit with a potentiometer connected to the electronic control unit, and we are reading. So, we
are acquiring information from this potentiometer here, acquisition. We are processing this information
because this potentiometer gives just a level of voltage, eventually included between 0.5 and 4.5 volts, okay?
Okay? We read this value of voltage, we convert this voltage in a percentage actuation, and we understand
if this position is plausible, okay? So, we are acquiring information, processing information, and comparing
information coming from a device, in this case, directly connected to the electronic control unit, because the
the potentiometer is directly connected to the electronic control unit. We also have to say that for safety
reason, we have two accelerator pedal potentiometer, okay? They read the same position, so they read the
position of the accelerator pedal, but for safety reason, we have a redundancy here. So, in case one fails,
we still have the other one. But most of all, we have two information about the same thing. So, we can
perform a comparison between the signals. So, basically, what happens here is that Diego acquires,
processes, and compares the information coming from these two potentiometers. If the information, if the two
signals are plausible, which means they should be the same information, no? If I'm accelerating to 50% with my
foot, then I should read 50% both from here and from here. So, if I read more or less 50% from these two
inputs, then it's okay. And I check it every, probably every 10 milliseconds, probably every 5 milliseconds,
I have this check, okay? So, every 5 milliseconds, is the voltage between 0.5 and 4.5? Yes. Are these two
voltages the same from the two potentiometers? Yes. Okay. And every 10 milliseconds, this check is done.
So, start to imagine the amount of information that you get in this way. How many information an
electronic control unit has to check? And this is only related to the proper position of the accelerator
pedal. This is one of the errors that you might have. Okay, this is one of the main ones, of course, because
the accelerator pedal is safety relevant. But on the main electronic control units, the ECU manages even 300,
400 diagnostic trouble calls, and so 300, 400 cyclic checks. So, you start to understand how much
information electronic control units share. Anyway, so we have an electronic control unit that is able to read
this data. And, of course, there is also, let's say, software inside of this electronic control unit,
okay? Because we don't need just to read the information physically, then we have also to
process them and compare them, okay? So, let's say that one sensor reads 80%, another one reads 10%.
So, here, of course, there's something wrong, because they should read the same information.
Of course, we dislike tolerance, but the information should be more or less the same.
So, let's say that, in reality, we are pushing the accelerator pedal to 50%, but one potential meter reads
80%, and the other one reads 10%. So, this is the issue that we were talking about, okay? We said we are on a
highway. We are driving. We are pushing the accelerator pedal to 50%. Then, for some reason,
one potential meter reads that we are pushing the accelerator pedal to 80%, and in that case,
the car would accelerate. The other one reads that we are actuating at 10%. That would mean that we have
to slow down, basically, because we are accelerating less than we were doing before. So, what happens in this
case? Okay, of course, think about it, but I will get no feedback in this recording. But, basically,
what should happen here is that the electronic control unit realizes, okay, there's something wrong
here, because there cannot be a difference of 70% between the potentiometers that should create the same
position. So, here, what happens is that the electronic control unit realize that there is something wrong.
So, detection of
failure, okay? So, the electronic control unit realizes, okay, there is something wrong. Detection of failure.
So, this means that we will have a DTC, diagnostic trouble code. So, the AIQ realizes that there is
something wrong, and the first action, apart from the actions that we mentioned before, which is acquiring,
processing, and comparing signals in a cyclic way, and blah, blah, blah. The second step is, okay, there is a failure.
So, here, then I save an electronic diagnostic trouble code. So, basically, I will have a code that I already
tell you is written in three bytes, okay? So, this every code is expressed in three bytes, okay? So, we'll have
a diagnostic trouble code, and this means, from the physical point of view, because, once again, please never
forget to mention and find the right connection to the real-world scenario, okay? So, the thing that we
have here is that, okay, we realized there is something wrong, and we have a three byte saved in here, okay?
So, usually, when I do this lesson live with the students in front of me, I ask, okay, is this enough?
I mean, you're on a highway, then the accelerator pedal is not working anymore, so is it enough that we have
three bytes saved in a metallic piece? Of course not, because, please remember that we are driving a car
on a highway, eventually, in 100 kilometers per hour, 130, or if you're a criminal, then it's going to be 200,
300, or whatever. And if there is something wrong with the accelerator pedal, I just don't,
I don't want just a code, so three bytes saved in an electronic control unit. I want that the car
does something so that I'm safe, so that I do not get killed, and other people do not get killed.
So, the next step is not only, okay, I save a diagnostic trouble code inside the electronic control unit,
but once I have a code, there is a third extremely important action that will happen,
that is a reaction base, basically, to this diagnostic trouble code. So, this is generally called
recovery, recovery action, or lymphome action, or system action, you know, there can be
plenty of names, but the main idea behind it is that it's not enough to have just three bytes saved
in an electronic control unit, because having three bytes saved in the memory will not save me if I
cannot accelerate, or if I cannot brake, or if the car, for example, decides to fall over the 80%
activation, and starts to accelerate by itself. This will not be helpful for me, this will not save
myself in case I have this kind of problems. So, it's not important only everything that we have
said before, but it's extremely important, and once the electronic control unit realizes that there is a
failure, and saves a diagnostic trouble code, then it enables a recovery action. What is a recovery action?
Recovery action is an action, or a set of actions taken by the electronic control unit to preserve
first, the safety of the driver, and the occupants of the vehicle. So, the passengers and drivers. So, first of all, safety.
Second priority is the safety of the system. Third priority is related to the emissions,
so to reduce the emissions. Fourth priority is going to be the performance of the vehicle.
and stuff like this. Okay, so the first important thing is to preserve the safety of the driver,
and the safety of the passengers, inside car and outside car.
So, guys, this is extremely important. You will listen, you will work on cars, you will work on
simulators, you will perform a lot of tests about software, about simulation, about the hardware and stuff
like this. I don't want to be brutal, let's say, but in the past, there has been a lot of accidents
related to some bugs not found in the software, or recovery action not working properly, or some failures
not properly seen. DTC not saved, so that there were no recovery action. This is a very serious matter,
because you can look for over internet. I don't want to show
now, because I prefer to keep the tone of the lesson light, but we have also situations where,
because of a software bug, then indeed, in such cases, the car didn't actuate recovery action,
but simply the car started to accelerate. So the car started to accelerate by itself,
and the people inside the car could not do anything, because the car was just accelerating by itself.
And basically, all these people inside this kind of the cars that had this kind of problem basically
did accidents, because the car accelerated by itself. And there is an extremely famous case of the
Toyota. You can search over internet for Toyota unwanted acceleration, so not wanted acceleration,
where almost 100 100 people got killed. Okay, everything happened because there were some tests that were
not done properly, some problems inside the software, the chain that I'm showing you here didn't work
properly. So finally, even though there were problems on the accelerator pedal, the car didn't realize,
and the the action of the car was not to slow down the car slowly and to preserve the safety of
drivers and passengers, but the car started to accelerate by itself. Guys, this is extremely serious
matter. This can happen. So that's why whatever you do, not just about the argument, this is a general
topic. Okay, this applies to everything. But this is why whatever you do, you must always find the
connection to the real world. Never, hopefully I will never hear from you, okay, I said the variable, I
made sure that the variable went to one and that's it. The variable in itself is nothing. If I have a DTC inside
an electronic control unit, for me, it's just an information inside a useless piece of metal. Okay, so here,
the bull chain has to work. So I don't care only about the software working properly inside the electronic
control unit because these that will not be enough in case I will have actual problems on the car.
Okay, so if you look over the internet, there are a lot, a lot, a lot of this kind of information. Okay, I don't want
to go into details of Toyota, the unwanted acceleration case and stuff like this. But if you type over
internet unwanted acceleration Toyota, you will see there is a very long
lawsuit against Toyota. Toyota had to pay billions of dollars to all the victims or the families. The
cars had to be retired and stuff like this. This is why this chain didn't work properly. Okay, so this
is not only a chain we discuss, okay, yeah, something you have to know to start working and earn money. No,
this is something related to safety first. Okay, nice. So once I threaten you with this dark
information, let's move on to the first step. Because, okay, so we are here, we are on the highway,
we are driving and then something wrong happened. The echo here realizes that there is something wrong.
So the first reaction again is, okay, there is a DTC diagnostic trouble code saved inside the electronic
control limit. But then what I expect is if I'm running at 100 kilometers per hour, then I expect
that the speed of my car slowly decreases until, I don't know, zero and then the car will turn off.
Okay, this happens because I have a DTC and once I have a DTC, a recovery kicks in. Okay, so the recovery
will be, in this case, okay, please ignore the information that comes from the accelerator pedal
because there's something wrong. So just ignore everything that comes from the accelerator pedal
is useless. Just ignore it. The car, you can brake, of course, the car can even by itself slowly reduce
the speed so that you do not get stuck all of a sudden in the highway. But you can cross the different
lines and stop the car safely. And eventually, one of the recovery can be also that you can turn on the car,
but the maximum speed will be 5 kilometers per hour or 10 kilometers per hour so that you can
move the car out of the way and bring the car somewhere safe. Okay, I know that the picture here
is not really clear, but if you followed me step by step, probably this should be very clear on how
close is to what can happen in a real case scenario. So now, okay, let's go back to the example. We were
driving, we had a problem, the echo realized there is a failure, it saves the DTC. First, the recovery is
enabled. So the car stops. Okay. Every time I do this example, let's say you are driving because you
need to go to a disco to dance or simply you're going to take, I don't know, your girlfriend, your
boyfriend, your friends, your families, whatever. So first important thing, okay, you saved your life.
Okay. Thanks. The car saved your life or bad. The team that tested this chain of things that must
happen inside an electronic control unit saved your life because they did the proper job.
Everything worked. So the echo realized it was a failure. DTC was saved. A recovery action was
activated. So the car, you know, after there was a problem, the recovery were enabled and the car safely
stopped. And your life is safe. Great. Then of course, I don't want to spend my life
on the side of the highway. I want to move from there. And so one of the things could be that the
recovery actions that are enabled are enables you to turn on the car and move the car to a maximum speed,
for example, five, five kilometers per hour, 10 kilometers per hour, or I don't know, 50 kilometers
per hour, whatever. So something that enables you to move from there and going somewhere, somewhere safe.
Or even consider, let's consider the example that the car is stuck. So once you safety stop, the car is
stuck, then someone will come pick you with a van. So they will just pull the car to the mechanical shop.
Okay. To the mechanics. Okay. Great.
What we want after we're safe is that our car will start working again. Okay.
So most of the time, uh, you know, when a project is already, uh, very advanced, so, uh, everything
already works and a car, let's say not the car that has been just released, but the car that is on the
market after two years, let's say, we are pretty confident that the software and everything works.
So most of the, the first check that the mechanic does is, okay, let's see what are the electron,
the error codes that we have inside the electronic control unit. So there will be a specific diagnostic,
uh, service that is a can message basically that is sent to the electronic control unit asking,
can you give me the list of diagnostic trouble code that you have? The electronic control unit,
most of the time will reply. Yes. I will give you the list of diagnostic trouble code. The echo will say,
I have a, uh, problem about the accelerator pedal. And the intervention of the mechanic will be,
okay, I will replace the accelerator pedal with the potentiometers related to it. Okay. This is one,
uh, path that we can follow to fix the problem, but let's consider this happened while we are developing
the car. So I, I don't need just to understand what was the problem, but to avoid that this problem will
happen again, I need further additional information to understand what was happening at the moment that the
error happened. So here I had a fourth step, uh, which I will call, let's say, uh, snapshot.
There are, there is also another way to call them, which is freeze freeze frame.
This is, uh, guys, this is basically a list of information of general information of the car that can
help, uh, people that is going to analyze this problem. What was doing the car when the problem
happened? So you will have other information about the level of the fuel or the level of the state of
charge in case we're talking about hybrid or electric vehicle. Um, uh, I don't know that the slope of the
road, the speed, the time since the engine was on the time, since the electronic control unit was on,
how many K on K off were done, uh, how many kilometers the car had, uh, driven that far so far. Uh,
uh, you know, there can be a lot, a lot of information, all the, for me, I don't know,
the status of the doors, the status of the seat belts, uh, you know, whatever, there can be whatever
information that can be helpful to understand what was going on when the error happened. This is done
because this is helpful to, um, these are all useful information for people that will, um, let's say,
work on this problem to understand why this problem on the accelerator pedal happened.
So, guys, let's repeat the chain. We have all the hardware that we need, so the potential meters,
the echo, the software inside the echo, and blah, blah, blah. Then something wrong happens and this
is done through the acquisition, processing, and comparison of signals using the software logic
inside. Then the echo detects there is a failure. This failure leads to the saving of the, of a
diagnostic trouble code, which I will, uh, I'll remind these are three bytes inside an electronic control
unit. Once the DTC is saved, then a recovery action is enabled, uh, using as priority the safety of the
passengers and drivers first, then the safety of the system, then the emissions, then the performance,
and other small stuff. Finally, every time we have a diagnostic trouble code, then a list of information
is saved so that we can understand what was, what was going on when the error happened. Okay.
So, this is everything related to saving the error code, uh, acting for the safety, saving the data,
and stuff like this. Of course, we will have also information that will, um, let us understand how to,
let's say, heal this situation. So, to remove the DTC, to remove the recovery action, and to let the car
work, uh, properly, uh, again. Okay. Let's go back to the, uh, presentation, but I need to drink a bit.
Okay.
So, uh, keep in mind one very important thing.
When we are referring to, um, a problem that we have on a car and the app OS to acquire signal,
process signal, and compare signals, this is everything that happens inside the electronic
control unit. Okay. So, everything we have mentioned about the example happens inside the electronic
control unit. So, the electronic control unit acquires signals, processes them, compares them,
uh, then, uh, saves the DTC. If there is a failure, uh, uh, actuate the recovery action,
uh, saves is an option. All the things that we have said before. Okay. Nice.
Once you bring your car to, uh, the mechanics or you are working as a validation team, you need to
check the diagnosis of, uh, an electronic control unit. We actually have to connect to the car and talk to
the car to retrieve all this information. So, we do it through a diagnostic instrument using then a
specific communication protocol that enables us to communicate with the electronic control unit.
The way to communicate with the electronic control unit is done through a list of CAN messages.
These are diagnostic messages and the, the, the syntax needed to write messages and to understand
the, the, the reply of the, of the electronic control unit is described in the ISO 14229. So, the ISO 14229
basically is a diagnostic norms that explains what is a diagnosis, RTI, uh, IO, routine, and blah, blah, blah.
But then once it gives you the general idea, then the UDS is a list of instructions
that are used to, uh, for, in this case, ask the electronic control units, uh, can you give me the
list of error code that you have in your memory? Okay. And the way to do it is using this specific, uh,
diagnostic service, which is a CAN message. Okay. So, in the norm, you will read a lot of diagnostic
services like, uh, diagnostic service 19, diagnostic service 22, diagnostic service 11, diagnostic service
14, diagnostic service 2E, diagnostic service 2F, diagnostic service 31, and there are a lot,
lot, lot of them. I've just listed the main one. Okay. What are they? They are simply
CAN messages and every CAN message described in this, uh, norm gives you the chance to communicate in a
way to the electronic control unit and ask the electronic control unit for or specific information
or specific actions. I already tell you that the main, uh, uh, service, so diagnostic message that we are
going to use for the diagnosis is the service 19. So, whenever you will have the norm, please, first of
all, read the chapter related to the service 19.
So, as I was saying, everything that is related to the diagnosis happens inside the electronic control unit,
but in case we want to communicate with the electronic control unit, we will need to
communicate with the car. So, uh, in order to communicate with the car, uh, first of all,
you need to, so the ECU that I was mentioning before are connected to a specific port that is in all
our cars, usually is on the bottom left side of the steering wheel. Okay, uh, probably I can show you
here as well, uh, OBD port cars. Let's see image. Yeah, you see here, bottom left side of the, uh, steering wheel.
Here you have the OBD port. This is a standard connector. This is used all over Europe, I guess,
and, uh, this is the only, uh, way to the external world of a car. This is the way we can talk to the car.
Okay, talk means sending to the electronic control unit specific, uh, messages and, uh, using the
rules that are listed inside the ISO 14229, so the UDS norm, and understanding the reply of the electronic
control unit using, once again, the, the set of rules explained in the ISO 14229. Okay, once again,
I'm showing you the physical side of everything so that you can understand that here we are talking
about something concrete. Nothing is abstract, it's not just a matter of bits,
it's not only a matter of bytes, it's not only a matter of variables. Okay, we are talking about
here concrete stuff. Okay, so, uh, the, the electronic control unit will arrive to this port that I was
showing you, the OBD port, then we will have some wires connected to a CAN case, which I believe,
I believe you have already seen in the lesson of, uh, CAN-LIN networks or a canalizer in G,
Kanoe, anyway, past lessons, you will have already seen, uh, this, and then through a USB cable,
then we will, you connect to your computer. In your computer, you will have a software,
but basically with this software, you will just write the, uh, canned messages following the instructions
explained in the norm ISO 14229 UDS, and then everything that, uh, so we send a message here,
because in the GAN case, from the GAN case, it goes to the OBD port, and from the OBD port goes
to the electronic control unit. The EC will reply, the reply will go back through the bull chain,
and will arrive back to us, and using the set of rules and the information provided by the ISO 14229 UDS,
we are able to understand, uh, the meaning of this reply. Okay, uh, great, so here, diagnostic performance,
you see a lot of, uh, a lot of other stuff that diagnostic does, so managing a physical transmission,
we have said that, recognizing emergencies, and we mentioned it, uh, implementing a full-time management
procedure, which means, okay, there is a failure, I save a DTC, then I should activate recovery action,
I should save a snapshot, uh, these are all the criteria, once they are met, I can also delete
the error code, because I'm sure everything is okay, so fault management procedure in general.
The engineering parameters, guys, are all the information included in the snapshot, or freeze frame,
okay, not less, not more, manage, oh, here, something that I forgot to mention, of course,
some errors are so important that the driver must be warned, and this is when you have some warning lamps
that you see on the cluster on the screen in your car, okay, so you have a red lamp, or I don't know,
an orange lamp, or whatever, just telling you, okay, look, there's something wrong in the system,
eventually, go to the service, and whatever, okay,
okay, so to finish this first section of this lesson, let's go through some few other slides,
um, it's very important that you keep in mind what we have already, uh, said before, okay,
related to the acquisition, comparing, processing, comparison, uh, saving of the, recognizing the
failure, uh, saving DTC, recovery action, and stuff like this, here we focus slightly on the
recognition of the failures and agencies, okay, so here we are in the phase where the electronic control
unit must acquire, um, signals, uh, process them, compare them, and through, uh, the software logic
that the electronic control unit has inside, understanding if there is a failure, okay, so,
uh, I will go through these slides, of course, you will read them, and you will understand them better,
uh, so you can read also them by yourself, I will just add a couple of things, so, because most of this
stuff are, have been already mentioned in the past, uh, the previous part of the lesson, okay, so we
already know that the error information must be, must be stored in the non-volatile memory, okay, so we
already know that these are the DTCs, um, um, in addition, these errors must be saved, not just in
the RAM memory, but also in the ROM memory, because, okay, the example that we did before about the
accelerator pedal, okay, everything, let's say, is smooth, so we do not turn off the car, basically,
every, the car does everything by itself, then once we are safely stopped, we turn off, we turn off the
car, but let's consider the example, we do an accident, so, uh, let's, once we, okay, let's hope
nothing happens in this accident, but once, uh, we have to take the car, and understand what happened,
and what was going on, then for us, it's important to know if, before the accident, there were some kind
of problems in the car, or some kind of problem happened right before the accident, that maybe caused
the accident, so it's extremely important that the information are not saved only in the RAM, but
the electronic control unit has some features that, uh, let the, um, information be saved, also in the
ROM memory, also in case of accidents. Uh, here is another information, before we mentioned,
generically, that, uh, the electronic control unit has to provide a cyclic check, we didn't mention
the specific vehicle condition, which this check has to be done, but basically, this check is done
always at key-on, cranking phase, engine running, uh, vehicle running, and power latch. I'm not sure
someone has already explained what power latch is, but basically, uh, when you turn off the car, basically,
you can, uh, um, experience yourself that sometimes you keep listening, the fun going, or it looks like
something is going on in the car, even though you turned off the car. So, basically, then, whenever
you turn off the car, there are some procedures that many echos has to do, for example, saving some data,
or, for example, if the, if the engine is too hot, then it must be, uh, cooled down. So, in all these cases,
then, some actions are needed even though you turned the car off. Uh, so, even with the, the, the,
the, the K off, the, the engine turned off, the power supply is still on, so the energy will be taken
from the 12 volt battery, and, um, all the time from the power of turn K off the car, the, the, the,
the engine, and performing the K off, to the actual, uh, disruption of the power. This is the power. So,
the time needed from the K off to the actual disrupt of the power that the electronic control unit needs
to perform, uh, you know, post K off procedures like saving data or keeping the actuation of some
devices in case, I don't know, for example, the engine is too hot, it needs to be cooled down. So,
the fan will still work to cool down the engine even though the engine is off. Okay. Um,
in the, I'm not sure you know about the cranking phase, but I think the cranking phase is mentioned
during the lesson of internal combustion engine. If not, you just have to know that during the crank
phase for the physical construction of the system, the voltage of the bat of the low voltage battery
will drop beat and this drop could create some false issues inside the electronic control unit. So,
the software must be able to understand when we are in a cranking phase so that all the problems that
are seen during the cranking phase will be filtered out because the drop of the voltage is not a real
problem, but it's something physical that must happen during the cranking phase. But in case there are
some doubts about the cranking phase, then please send me an email and eventually I will add a small
additional explanation on this slide. Keeping in mind always the chain that I was mentioning before,
we can have different kinds of errors. I used the example of the accelerator pedal because it's very,
it's easy to be understood, but other possible problems are electrical problems, so hardware problems.
Also, in the example that I did before, there could have been an hardware problem because maybe the
sensors, the potential meters started to read a wrong position because there was an hardware problem.
Okay, so it could be also an hardware problem, but in general the main hardware problem that we can
have are basically three. One is the open circuit OC, so there is, I don't know, a wire has been cut,
okay, for example. One is a short circuit to ground, so for example if we have a device that should have
voltage between one volt and four volt, short circuit ground means that we read a zero volt, for example.
Okay, so it's out of the accepted values. Third possible failure is short circuit to battery,
so unless we do not have a voltage between one and four volt as we expect, but we have, for example,
five volts, which is the power supply voltage. Okay, so these are the three main electrical problems that
we can have, and then comparing information, so acquiring signals, processing signals, and comparing
signals. We can also evaluate plausibility, so it means that we have many sensors or source of information
about the same thing about the same thing. These information are compared between each other to see
if everything makes sense. Okay, the example I was doing before of the comparison between the two
potential meters, that was also a plausibility check because we are comparing two information,
two information coming from two different devices, and we are making sure that these information are
plausible. That means that the position of the accelerator pedal read by the two potentiometers is the same.
Okay, there are also short circuits between different wires or power supply problems.
So we can summarize everything with the electronic system failures or electrical failures, as we mentioned
before, power supply failures or even mechanical part failures. The mechanical problems are a bit tricky because we do not have,
I don't know, a deformation sensor on every mechanical part that we can understand if something is going wrong and there is a deformation or something.
But using the sensors or other information that we can get from other devices, we can indirectly understand if there are mechanical problems.
Once we know that there are no electrical problems, for example, then there could be communication problems.
The physical connection between nodes is present. Okay, so the three nodes are all properly connected, but for some reason the communication between the two is not proper.
So for example, I expect 10 messages from the node A to node C, but I just read eight messages, three messages, one message, or I don't read anything.
These are all communication problems, so they are not related to an actual electrical problem.
That could be an open circuit, short circuit to battery, short circuit to ground, but I have a communication problem.
So I do not read properly or the information that I expect to read, and I can have here a different kind of communication problem.
On this part, I would suggest you to read the slides because they should be very self-explained.
Okay, there's no absent, the node faulty, node mute, bus off, and stuff like this.
Okay.
Okay, this information is, this slide is a bit, let's say, in advanced content, but okay, I'll explain it.
Then I would suggest you, once you finish the video, to read this slide again, because then probably it would be easier to understand.
So we have said basically that all the acquiring, processing and comparing signals,
saving the DTC, actuating the recoveries and stuff like this, everything happened inside the electronic control unit, okay?
And I said that if we want to talk to the car to know all of this information that are inside the electronic control unit, I say it again,
we need to connect the OBD port that I mentioned here before, which is the, that is this connector that we have on the bottom left side of the steering wheel.
And then, following the rules of the ISO 14229, we can request information or request the echo to do something and the echo will reply with the specific information.
Great.
So, this means that unless I connect all the hardware needs and I request information or I request something sending diagnostic messages through the hardware that I showed you before,
there are no diagnostic information available on CAN network because we are the one asking,
but without the external hardware, there will be no one asking diagnostic information to the electronic control unit.
This means that as default, we do not have diagnostic information on CAN, okay, on the network.
This is very important.
So, it means that if there is a problem on a car, but there was no hardware connected,
that there was no one requesting diagnostic information, we can also have a log,
so a recording of everything that happened on the CAN network, we will have no information about the diagnosis, okay?
But, just to give a general idea to see if there were problems, then there are just two CAN signals that talk about the diagnosis,
which are the current fail status, which is a signal that simply says if I have an active DTC or not.
So, if I have one problem actually active right now, then this signal goes to one.
It will not tell me which is the DTC, which are the recoveries, which is the snapshot, which is the reason of the failure,
which are the ways to solve the problem. It will not tell me anything, okay?
So, all the information that I was mentioning can be retrieved using diagnostic information.
But here, we are talking about only two signals on a CAN.
So, the current fail status will tell me only if I have active errors.
So, it will go to one if I have an active error, or if I have no active errors, then it will stay zero.
The generic fail status will go to one if I have at least one error saved inside the electronic control unit,
and it will go to zero if I have no DTC saved inside the electronic control unit.
So, this could be a bit confusing, but it will be very much more clear once you start doing the exercises.
So, this ends the first part.
Then, there will be a second module of this lesson, because as I said,
the DTC is stored inside the electronic control unit with three bytes, which is basically an ID.
Okay, so this is the ED of the error, but then we have a fourth
byte that says the status, so it says, okay, this is the error with the three bytes,
and the fourth byte tells me which is the status of this error.
Okay, so it tells me if it's active, if it's not active, if it's active right now,
it was active in this cycle, but a few minutes ago, if it was active the last case cycle,
two monitoring cycles before, or that it's not active, but still we have a trace in the memory.
So, all this information can be retrieved from the fourth byte, and the fourth byte plus
small other stuff will be the topic of the second module of this lesson.
So, once again, my references are this one.
So, pasquale.perrota, head sign, kinethon.it, you can send me an email, you can write
a chat, or simply you can write an email to Automotive Training.
This is a team where I am involved, so me or other four people will help you
with all the questions that you might have about this topic.
Give us feedback about the lesson. If something is missing or is not very clear,
please let me know in the mail, and we will work on additional modules to this lesson.
Thank you so much.
